<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-agri-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.433</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">251</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3463</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1077</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t12">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The soil fertility may be defined as the capability of a soil to supply essential plant nutrient elements as per requirement of a crops or plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">A soil is considered fertile when it contains all the essential plant nutrient elements in right proportions.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Deficiency of plan nutrient elements in right proportions.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Deficiency of plant nutrient elements makes soil unfertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Mineral matters of soil have been formed by the physical disintegration of parent rocks, most of the plant nutrient elements are present in these mineral materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Plants absorb these nutrient elements and thus grow and produce flower and fruit .</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Organic matter is product as a result of decomposition of plant and sandal residues, excreta and dead bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Organic matters get mixed with the soil and help to increase the nutrient supplying capacity of soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Optimum cultivation of soil makes a soil soft and loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Added organic matter and chemical fertilizer are well mixed with the soil when a soil is tilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">As a result plant roots can easily spread in the soil and can absorb plant nutrients and it increases the fertility of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Irrigation water when applied to soil makes the soil moistened.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Soil moisture makes the nutrient elements soluble and absorbable to plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">When applied to soil organic manures release nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium, iron etc. in the soil, the micro-organisms are activated and soil fertility increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Soil fertilizer decreases due to continuous cropping Urea, T.S.P. and M.P. are applied as chemical fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">As a result of application of above fertilizer, Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potash are added respectively to the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The compost may be defined as the material prepared by decomposing farm and cattle wastes, straw, weeds, water hyacinth, agro wastage etc. in presence of micro- oganisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Compost is prepared by mixing and decomposing several types of organic wastes.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">However, compost can also be prepared by decomposing a single organic waste.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Compost may be prepared by main two ways; The site for compost preparation should be high enough so that water logging does not occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Farm premises or sides of cowshed are suitable places for setting compost heaps.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Compost heaps may also be placed under a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">At first a place measuring 3 metres in length and 2 metres in width should be selected.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Four poles may be set at four corners and rope may be used for en circling the place.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Farm straws staws, weeds etc, should be placed in layers within the boundary.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The height of the first layer should be 30 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Grounded oil cake-1 kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">urea-500 gram, triple super phosphat-200 gram.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Instead of the above materials 2 kg of bio-activator many be spread over the composting materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">After that, water may be spread by a water can over the layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">It will help to compact the wastes which will accelerate the decomposing process.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Then a layer of 5cm thickness consisting cowdung may be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">In this way 7 consecutive layers should be prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The surface of the 7th layer should be like a shed having slopes at both sides so that rain water can not stand there or can not enter.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The heap may be covered by a polythene sheet.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Compost fertilizers become suitable for use in crop filed in 45 to 60 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The layers of the compost should be thoroughly turned up and down to ensure unifrom and accelerated decomposition of all the layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The upper layer should be given in the bottom and bottom layer should be given at the top.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Within next month of the turning of the materials, the compost becomes ready for useing in the crops field.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">At first a high land site should be selected.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">One trench measuring 3 metres in length, 2 metres in width and 1.2 metres in depth should be dug.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Similar 6 trenches may be dug side by side.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Shed should be made over each trench.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Five trenches should be filled with waste materials like cowdung, straw, house hold wastes etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">After filling the trenches the height of waste materials should be 30 cm above the surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">One of the trenches will be kept empty.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">After 4 weeks of decomposition the empty trench will be filled up with materials of nearest trench.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The trench thus made empty will be filled in by another nearest trench.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">In this way waste materials will be transferred to the next trench and it will be fully turned.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">This turning will enhance the decomposition process in composting.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The waste materials will be fully decomposed within 2 to 3 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">By this method compost may be prepared throughout the year in a single set of trenches.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Compost fertilizers play an important role in increasing soil fertility.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Nitrogen, Phosphorus, potassium nutrients are added to the soil through compost fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Besides, compost fertilizers make the soil more suitable for crop cultivation through improving the soil texture and structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Water holding capacity and soil aeration is also increased due to compost application.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The cost for compost production is also low.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">For these reasons use of compost is beneficial and profitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The manure prepared by decomposing green crops grown at young stage within soil through ploughing is known as green manure.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Sesbania or Dhaincha, Cowpea, Sunhemp, Kalai, Crotalaria when mixed with the soil before flowering through ploughing starts decomposing.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">After that when soil is pulverized thoroughly by 3 to 4 ploughings, cross ploughing and laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Then these materials are completely decomposed within two weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">One of the benefit of green manure is that it is used in the place where it is grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Sesbania or Dhaincha may be cultivated in any types of soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">After one or two ploughing fertilizer should be applied to the soil at the rate of 70 gm of Triple Super Phosphate and 50 gm of Muriate of Potash per one decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Then Dhaincha seed should be shown at rate of 200 gm.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">200 gms of Dhaincha seeds in one decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It will result very thick population of Dhaincha seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Within 75 days after seed sowing flowering will start.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">At this stage the plants will be mixed with the soil by ploughing.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">If the plant, become too tall it may be cut into pieces by Dao or sickle.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The Dhaincha plants will be fully decomposed of three ploughing are done after two weeks of initiation of rottening, 350 to 450 gm of nitrogen and 12 to 100 kg organic matter are added to one decimal of land from such green manuring.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Benefits of Green Manure : Green manure influences soil fertility and conservation of soil in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Soil erosion may be defined as the transportation of surface soil by the direct action of natural forces like water stream, air flow, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Plant nutrients are usually stored within the 15 to 20 cm depth of soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Soil erosion causes the loss of these surface soil nutrients.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">As a result agricultural soil become unfertile gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Water erosion may be defined as the transportation of soils from one place to another by the action of water stream.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Sheet erosion may be defined as the process of soil removal in a thin sheet due to rainfall and irrigation water flows at mild slopes of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The soft, loose and surface soil is removed by this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Slopy land is very vulnerable to sheet erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Sheet erosion is very slow in flat land.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Rill erosion is the second phase of sheet erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">When the speed and volume of water stream increases, the soil is removed forming narrow surface rills.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">This is known as rill erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Channel erosion is the phase of erosion, which is next to rill erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The process of channel erosion may be defined as the transportation of soil through the channel formed by enlarging the form and structure of rills.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Usually the uncared rills are transformed to channels.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The land suffering from channel erosion losses its fertility and productivity rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">River bank erosion may be defined as the loss of river bank soil due to strong flow of stream causing damage of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The intensity of river bank erosion is high at the beginning and at the end of flooding.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Farmers frequently loose their land and houses due to river bank erosion every year in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Thus they become landless and poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Sea shore erosion may be defined as the loss of sea shore soil and land due to tidal upsurge and waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The coastal area and the islands of the sea are seriously affected by this type of sea shore erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Like water stream wind of low also causes significant soil erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Wind erosion may be defined as the movement of soil from one place to another by the direct action of strong wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Wind erosion causes the movement of sand of deserts off to hundred miles and makes the fertile soil unproductive.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The torrential rain directly and seriously heat the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">As a result the soil particles are broken.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Rainfall for a longer duration cause flow of water on the soil surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The flow of this excess water carries fertile soil along with from the surface and makes the soil as unproductive.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Erosion is found to be accelerated in sloppy land.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The speed of water run off become higher when the slope of the land is higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The porosity of heavy texture or clay soil is less.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The infiltration of water is also less in case of heavy clay type soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">A light rainfall even can cause water logging in clay soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">If the land is slopy then the water flows to the lower ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">On the other hand more organic matter is less vulnerable to soil erosion because of its higher water holding capacity and higher porosity.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">When cultivated along the slope of hillyareas, the erosion becomes accelerated.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Intensive cultivation of soil cause soil erosion due to influence of water and wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Vegetation and forest are the gift of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">If these vegetation or forests are destroyed by human activities the soil erosion gets accelerated.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Loss of forest encourages soil transportation from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Affect of Soil Erosion Plant nutrients and soil fertility ingredients are mainly stored in the soils of 15 to 20 cm depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Soil erosion dominantly causes the loss of this fertile surface soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The plant nutrient elements and level of soil fertility are thus reduced due to soil erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The gradual loss of soil fertility makes the soil unsuitable for crop production after certain time.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The process of soil erosion gradually results in the silting of channels rivers basins and other water ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Char lands are raising in rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">These Char lands seriously hamper navigation during the dry season and cause floods during the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Long term Occurrence of soil erosion causes loss of agricultural land.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">So it is important to follow scientific conservational practices to protect the soil from erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Soil erosion may be controlled by reducing the speed of water flow or stream.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Preparing dikes or ails across the water run off in the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Leveling the small rills and channels.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Allowing the growth of submerged weeds and putting appropriate wire nets at the end of channels.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Soil may be protected from erosion taking appropriate measures for drainage.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The sub soil tile drainage system is very suitable for draining out of excess rainfall water.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Water drainage speed should be slow enough so that it cannot cause soil erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Application of organic matter increases the water absorption and water holding capacity of soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">More absorption of water from the soil surface reduces water run off.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">In this way increased use of organic matter will soil erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Water streams can not move so fast in hill slopes if terrace are prepared for crop cultivation cross the slope By adopting this most important technique soil fertility may be conserved in slopy hill areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Cultivation of crops directly across the slope is known as contour method.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Soil may satisfactorily be conserved by cultivating perennial crops in the contour method.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The soil with moderate slopes may be segmented according to the nature of land to reduce downwards of soil transportation.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Then one type of crop may be cultivated in one small plot without loss of considerable soil materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Growing plants or afforestation always reduces water run off and thus helps to control soil erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Select a piece of highland near your school or at a corner of the school campus.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Measure a place 3 metres in length and 2 metres in width with the tape metre scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Put 4 sticks at the 4 corners of the selected and measured place.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Give a temporary boundary with a rope binding it with the corner poles in a rectangular shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Then arrange the waste materials including straws, weeds, decomposable materials etc. in layers maintaining a height of 30 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">After the preparation of the first layer add 1 kg crushed oil cake, 500 gm Urea, and 200 gm Triple Super Phosphate.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Instead of the above materials 2 kg of compost activator may be spread over the layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Add some water on the surface of the waste materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Then add a 3 cm layer of cow-dung with prescribed amount of Urea and, Triple super Phosphate.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Instead activator at the rate of I kg per layer may be spread over the moistened waste materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Arrange 7 layers one above another following the same procedure adding cow- dung, Triple Super Phosphate or activator as described earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Give the seventh layer a shape of shed covered by a polythene sheet so that rain water does not stands.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Add water in the compost heap regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Turn the compost layers to accelerate the decomposition process after one month.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Add 10 kg activator in total at different layers while turning.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Following this process compost may be prepared within 45 to 60 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Break the compost heap.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Dry, crush, and keep the material in sack.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Write the procedure of compost preparation as you have followed in the practical note book.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Chapter Four Plant Nutrient Elements The elements absorbed by plant from soil, air and water for their growth and development are known as plant nutrient elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">A plant can not grow in a soil deficient in plant nutrients.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">It is essential to apply deficient plant nutrient elements as artificial fertilizers and manures for profitable crop production.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Observing the growth of leaf, stem, plant and crops yield may assess the quantity of plant nutrients present in a soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The nutrient content also may quantitatively be known by chemical testing of soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">It is very important to know the classification, functions and deficiency symptoms of nutrient elements to understand the nutrition system of a plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The number of essential plant nutrient elements is These are carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium, sulphur, iron, manganese, molybdenum, copper, zinc, boron, cobalt and chlorine.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">According to the quantity of plant nutrient absorbed by plants, the plant nutrient elements may be divided into-two classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The elements which are required for plant nutrition in large amount are known as major nutrient elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The number of major plant nutrient elements is 9.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The elements, which are required for plant nutrition only in trace amount, are known as micronutrient elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The number of micronutrient elements is 8. Soil, air and water are the main 3 natural sources of plant nutrients.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The artificial sources of plant nutrients are the organic manure and chemical fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Excluding carbon, hydrogen and oxygen the rest of the 14 plant nutrient elements are absorbed by plants from soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Plant absorb hydrogen and oxygen from water.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Besides, plant can absorb other mineral elements which are found to stay in water in soluble form.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Most the nutrients required for plant nutrition are found in organic manure.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Cowdung, compost, organic wastes, straw and weeds after decomposition may be used as organic manure.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Urea, Triple Super Phosphate, Muriate of potash etc. are the examples of chemical fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">A chemical fertilizer normally supplies the major plant nutrient elements such as nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The nutrient elements are known to perform many functions to complete the life cycle of a plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Some of the nutrients directly help in growth of plant, some help in preventive diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">While some other help in maturity and ripening of seed.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Some nutrients also help in absorption of other nutrient elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The combined influence of the above mentioned functions determine the quality and quantity of yield, in addition to the beneficial effects, some of the elements also exerts detrimental role when present in excess amounts.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Plant nutrients when applied in balanced form show beneficial effects.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Otherwise, application in excess or deficient amount show negative results.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Some important functions of plant nutrient elements are described here.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The influence of nitrogen in fulfilling the life cycle and optimum growth of plant is most important.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Urea fertilizer is used to supply nitrogen to crop plants in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The nitrogen content of urea is about 46 percent.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Gives a deep green colour to the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Helps in photosynthesis, metabolism and respiration of plants Results in rapid growth of leaf and stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Improves the quality of areal grain crops, fodder and leafy vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Helps in production of tiller in cereal grain crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The most important phosphatic fertilizers are triple super phosphate and diammonium phosphate.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Participates in the division of plant cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Accelerates the growth of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Forms the root system of plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Helps in flowering of plant in right time and ripening of fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Improves the quality of crop products.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Supply energy and strengthens plant structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Muriate of potash is most important among the potassium fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Muriate of photash contains about 60 percent potash.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Increases the disease resitance power of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Helps in cell division in plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Helps in carbohydrate production in plant leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Controls, movement of carbohydrate and other biochemical compounds within the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Keep balance in the uptake of nitrogen and phosphorus in plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Gypsum or calcium sulphate is the most important sulphur fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Gypsum contains about 14 percent sulphur.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Gypsum or calcium sulphate may be applied for calcium supplement in crop fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Calcium sulphate contains about 22 percent calcium.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Functions of Calcium in Plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Strengthens walls of the plant cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Helps in growth and development of plant roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Make the plant cells strong and elastic.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Increases the yield of pulse crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Ferrous sulphate is most important among the iron fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">This ferrous sulphate fertilizer may be applied both in the soil and in the plant as spray.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Pants when grown in soil having deficiency in plant nutrient elements show definite symptoms in their leaves, stems and in their formation and sizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The normal growth and development of shoot and root of plants are seriously affected by phosphorus deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Cell division is hampered in absence of phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Lack of phosphorus causes delayed growth of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Phosphorus deficiency reduces the number and size of leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The protein content of plant is reduced in absence of sufficient phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Flowering is greatly by affected by phosphorus deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Phosphorus deficiency results in dropping of fruit and the size of fruit become small.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The resistance power of plant is reduced ill absence of sufficient potassium.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Potassium deficiency increases pest infestation in crop plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Lack of potassium reduces the rate of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Growth is stunted in potassium deficiency plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Potassium deficiency is responsible for bronze colouration of leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Growth of plant root is stunted in case of potassium insufficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Drought resistance power of crop plant is decreased by potassium deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Cell division is seriously hampered in absence of sulphur.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Plants get dwarf structure when deficient in sulphur.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Size of leaves becomes small and found to be discoloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Plant maturity is delayed due to sulphur insufficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The stems and branches of plants become narrow when sulphur is a limiting factor The yield of oil seed crops are greatly reduced when grown in sulphur deficient soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Whitish spots appear at the base of rice leaves when zinc deficiency becomes prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The interveinal spaces of maize and cotton leaves are discoloured if zinc deficiency occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The older leaves of rice plant found to show a rust colour if zinc deficiency is severe.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Curling of lemon leaf is common system of zine deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The apex of young it laves show abnormal formation when plants suffer from calcium deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The symptoms of chlorosis occur in leaf when calcium supply in plant is inadequate.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The midrib and the leaf margins are found to show yellow and brown shades when calcium nutrition is limiting.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The plant leaves get smaller size in case of calcium deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Plants a dwarf structure due to the lack of calcium.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">At first chlorosis occurs in the young leaf due to iron deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The interveinal spaces show chlorotic symptoms when iron is lacking.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">This chlorosis then spread gradually over the whole leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The leaves become brownish when the deficiency of iron in plant is severe.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
