<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-agri-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.659</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">245</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3464</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1105</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t21">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The place where forest sapling are produced, cultured and maintained till planting is known as forest nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The major objectives of producing sapling or seedling in the nursery are the following.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Doing cultural operations easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Raising seedling according to the requirement of planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Producing good quality healthy seedling of expected or selected species or varieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Ensuring production and supply of seedling of different varieties and at different ages as per requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Gaining advantages through reducing cost of production, distribution and marketing.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Growing seedlings under unfavorable environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">There are seeds which are to be sown within 1-2 days after harvest from the trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">These type of seed can not be stored.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">So, it is required to sow this seeds in the nursery and may be planted suitably later on.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Besides saplings are also produced from plant parts like stem and root in the nursery scientifically.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Nursery is essentially required for producing seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">A good plan is required for establishing a nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The important points to be considered while establishing a nursery are mentioned below.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Selection of site is of prime importance while establishing nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The nursery will be an economically loosing concern if inappropriate site is selected for the purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">So, the following points must be considered while selecting a site for a nursery:</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The land should be such that rain water do not stand and flood water can not reach.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Drainage system of the land is perfect.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The area is open to sufficient air and sun light.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Communication system is good for the transport of seedling and nursery materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Water is available for irrigation or irrigation system can be developed easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The soil is of loam texture and fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The total land area required for a nursery depends on the types and number of seedling to be produced per year.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The required area for a nursery can be determined considering the following data.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Polybag made of polythene approved by the Government of Bangladesh mentioning required thickness, composition and colour (mostly black).</sent>
				<sent id ="28">About an equal area of land required for seedling production is needed in making roads and drains in the nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Housing and physical structures need about 10 percent total nursery area.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The land selected for nursery should be cleaned and to be kept always weed free.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Large stumps of trees or rocks if present should be removed from the area.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Land should be leveled.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Earth filling may be made if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">However, terracing may be done in case of establishing nursery in the hilly areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Protection boundary should be given around the nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Such protection may be given by bamboo, brick wall, barbed wire fences or iron wire net.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Live hedge can also be established by growing Kata Mehedi plant putting thickly in line.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The most important work of establishing nursery is fts planning and layout design.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The layout design mostly consists of size, shapes and sites of nursery beds, roads, drains, housing and physical facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The site for growing various types of seedling should be mentioned in design plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The whole nursery may be divided into several blocks according to the nature and types of seedling planned to be produced, nursery should also have some specific place for doing day to day miscellaneous works.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The usual size of a nursery bed measure 12 metre x1.2 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">However, the measurements may slightly very according to the size and shape of the selected place within the nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">A space of measuring 45-50 cm may be kept free in between two nursery beds.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The width of main and lateral inspection roads should be 3-4 metre and 1-2 metre respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The nursery should have one main channel for draining out of excess water.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The lateral drains will be connected with the main channel.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The lateral drains may be prepared at the side of the inspection roads.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Ponds, earthen wells, tubewells should be prepared or dug a channels may be made for supplying irrigation in the nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">A general layout plan of a nursery is given here.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The selected land should be spaded at a depth of 15-20 cm for production of seedling directly in the soil or bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The grasses, weeds, stumps, pebbles, etc. should be cleared off from the soil bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Some loamy soils may be collected from another place and should be mixed with bed soil if the texture of the soil seems to be clay type.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The surface of the seed bed should be levelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The size and shape of the beds may be according to the nature of land available for the purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The bed should be raised 10-15 cm above ground by putting soil on it from the space in between two beds.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The space between the beds will thus turned to be a channel for draining excess water.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">If the soils of the channel is not sufficient to raise the seed bed, then some soils may be collected from other places.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The side drain of a seed bed should be connected with the middle drains.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The side of the seed bed should be bounded thin bamboo sticks of 35- 40 cm length should be put at the side of the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Then bamboo ribs may be bound with the sticks at the height of 10-15 cm in a crosswise pattern.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The side of seedbed can also be bounded by wooden plunk or bricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Producing seedling in pots and poly bag, ploughing the soil, of bed is not necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The bed should raised 10-15 cm above ground putting soils from the space in between two beds.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The side of the bed are bounded by bamboo or bricks as available.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The materials needed for seedling production in the nursery mostly include polybag, seed, soil, fertilizers and inputs needed for preparation of seedbed and intercultural operations.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Inputs needed for seed bed preparation and cultural practices include spade, sickle, dao, khurpi, water can, bricks, bamboo, wood plunks, basket, rope, and sprayer machines for applying plant protection chemicals.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Good seeds are essentially required for raising quality seedlings in the nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Good seed plants are needed to produce good quality seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">So, it is important to know the characteristics of the good seed plant for collecting good seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The plant should have a wider canopy with branches and sub-branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The plant should be free from disease, devoid of any canker symptom and should have sufficient foliage.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">A seed plant having the characteristics as mentioned above is called Mother plant or Model Seed plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Disease free ripened seeds should be collected from such model seed plants for producing seedling in the nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The collected seeds may be fully sun dried and stored.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The seeds, which cannot be stored for a long time, should be planted as soon as possible after harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The time of seed collection, storage and germination period are mentioned here in a table.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The time of seed collection, sowing and germination of forest tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The seeds of fleshy fruits such as mango, black berry, jack fruit, hog plum, papaya etc. should be collected from ripened fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Then the seeds should be planted considering its germination periods.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The seeds having shorter germination period should be planted immediately after collection.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The examples of such types of plants are Shal, Garjan, Telsur, Bamboo, Chapalish and Jackfruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The storing of collected seeds till planting is known as seed storage or preservation.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Seeds are damaged if these are not rightly stored because of infestation by insect pests and diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The seeds also loose its germination capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The seeds of Shishu, Mehgoni, Babla, Date palm may be stored in gunny bag after drying and winnowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">But the seeds of Guava, Koroi, Krishna Chura, and other small seeds should be kept in air-tight pots or fully closed bags.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Insecticides and fungicides should be used in the seeds when it is needed to store the seeds for a longer period.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">A name tag having name of the seed, place of collection, name of the collector and date should be kept in each pot or bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Every polybag have one end open and the other end tightly closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Small holes numbering 8-10 should be mad in the lower part of the polybags of all sizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Excess water if any within the polybag will come out through the holes.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Sandy loam and loam soils are good for nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Sandy loam soil is good for filling in polybag.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Generally surface soils of the forests are good for producing seedling in polybag.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Forest soils contain decomposed litre on its surface and then these are fertilizer soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">A forest soils are not available, soils may be collected from bushes.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Soils are required to be disinfected through treatment in many cases, specially when soils are used in germination trays.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Soil treatment protects the tiny seedling from diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Soil treatment may be done in two ways, such as heat treatment or chemical treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Chemical like formalin may be used for soil treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The collected soil and composts may be mixed for filling polybag in the ratio 3:1.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Triple Super Phosphate (T.S.P) and Muriate of Potash (M.P) should be applied in the mixture in the ratio of 2:</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The dozes of these fertilizer may be determined as per fertility of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">This soil-fertilizer mixture should be kept for 15 days under shade or may be covered by polythene sheet.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Then the soil should be crushed and sieved for making it suitable for filling in polybags.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Polybag with holes should be filled in with the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The polybag should be in good condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The polybag should hold by left hand and soil should be put in the polybag slowly by the right hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The soil within the polybag should be slightly compacted by giving pressure with the help of hand or a round end bamboo peg.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Then the polybag should be shaken for 2-3 times holding the upper side of the polybag by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Some quantity of soil should be given again and thus the polybag will be completely filled in by soil and ready for seed sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The seedling become weak and curved if the polybag is not filled completely with soil-fertilizer mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The polybags are to be set and arranged in a bed after filling it with soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Before placing the polybag, the bed should be compacted and leveled by hammering.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Then the polybag should be placed keeping it straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The polybag setting should be started from one side.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The bags should be arranged very closely.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Care should be taken so that the polybags always stands up right.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The loosely held polybags produce weak and curved seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Comparatively larger seeds can be held by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Usually 2 seeds per polybag are sow directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The examples of the types of seeds are Koroi, Raintree.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Mehgoni, Shal, Garjan and Debdaru, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">If seed of any polybag do not germinate then seedling from another polybag having two strong seedling rnay transferred to the empty polybag.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">For transplanting in the polybag seedlings may be produced in a separate germination bed or geranination tray.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Seeds are usually broadcasted in the germination beds or trays.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">If the seeds are too small then seedling are produced in germination bed or germination trays.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The trays should have few small holes at the bottom.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">At first a piece of cloth or a polythene sheet with holes or 2 to 3 fold newspapers should be placed at the bottom of the germination tray.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Some broken bricks or pebble should be given on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Then the germination tray should be filled with treated soil mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Then tray with the soil should be kept on a pot filled with pure water so that the soil can absorb water through the holes and gets fully moistured.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Then the seeds mixed with double quantity of ash should be uniformly and thinly sown on the surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Some water may also be sprayed carefully on the surface of seed bed or tray if needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">If the soil clods are comparatively larger, then it should be finely ground before sowing small seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Then the seedling is plant in polybag.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Seedling germinated in trays having two parts of leaves may be carefully transplanted in the polybag.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Before uprooting, the soils of the germination tray should be moistened.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Before transplanting the soils of polybag should also be moistened.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Seeds of many plants are directly sown in soil bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">For this purpose at first the bed is to be prepared by ploughing and mixing fertilizer with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Broadcasting sown seeds over the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Seeds may also be sown in line.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">It is always better to sow seeds in line.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The seed to seed distance in a line should be 5 cm for short duration seedlings and 10 cm long term duration.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Sowing seed in dual line is also good.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The distance between one dual line to another will be 20 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In this way 4 dual lines may be accommodated in a single seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Seedling may be produced from the vegetative part, such as branch, tuber, leaf and root of many tree species.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This is known as vegetative propagation.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Grafts, cutting, trench, layering, eye budding, air layering etc. are main examples of vegetative propagation.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Vegetative propagation methods are followed in case of plants like mango, litchi, sapota, pomegranate, plum, lemon etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Branches or cutting are used for multiplication of Sajna, Mandar, Simul and Jiga plants while planting in the homestead area.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The under ground tubers or stumps are used for cultivation of bamboo and cane in rural areas of Bangladesh from ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">However, this method is costly and sometimes production of sufficient number of propagates is not possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Presently methods of producing bamboo from twigs have been developed through research and are being adopted in Bangladesh cost effectively and successfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Pati pata is now cultivated using its stumps.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Appropriate care should be taken after sowing seeds or transplanting seedlings in seed bed or polybag.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Expected number of healthy and strong seedlings can not be obtained without doing appropriate cultural practices.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The seedlings of many tree species after germination can not tolerate direct sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Shade or cover protects the tiny seedlings just after germination from the direct sun and heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It also helps in conservation of soil moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Usually shade or cover are not required for Shegun and Gamar tree seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Seed bed shades are generally prepared by strow, sun grass, bamboo chips and thatches.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The height of the shade may be about I metre from the soil level.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The shade may be placed or attached with structured frames made of bamboo, wood or iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">If the bed is longer in the east west direction, then the shade should have mild slope in the south direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Mulching may be termed as the activity of covering the seedbed by waste materials, half decomposed compost, straw, sun grass, leaves etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Mulching helps in conservation of soil moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">It preserves the temperature of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Mulching may successfully be used in the seedlings of Coconut, Betel nut, Flog plum and Mehgoni.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Mulching increases the rate of germination of seedlings and reduces the irrigation requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Irrigation should regularly be given in the polybag after seed sowing and transplanting.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">At the preliminary stage, light irrigation should be given just enough to wet soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Irrigation enhances the germination process.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">But excess irrigation may create water logging causing rottening of the seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">No irrigation is required in the rainy season, if rainfall occurs regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Irrigation should be given in the morning and evening time.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Care should be taken so that no weed can grow in the nursery bed or polybag.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Weeds compete with the seedling for water and nutrients.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Thus it hampers production of strong and vigorous seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Moreover it increases the possibility of disease infestation.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">So nursery should always be kept free from weeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">It is better to control weeds at the early growth stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Some irrigation may be given in the nursery bed if the bed is too dry while weeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Each polybag should not contain more than one seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">More seedlings in one polybag retards the growth of the seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">So keeping one healthy seedling all should be removed from the polybags.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The soil of the polybag may be moistened before uprooting the seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">If the seedbed is densely populated then the weak seedlings, should be weeded keeping only the strong and vigorous seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">If there is any thinly populated spot in the seedbed; then gap filling should be done collecting seedlings from other places.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The seedbed should also be moistened before uprooting seedling in such cases.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">It is better to peform the uprooting and transplantation of seedling in the evening or in cloudy weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Required quantity of fertilizers must be applied in the nursery for its growth along with usual weeding and irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">It keeps the seedling stout, accelerate growth rate and reduces attack of insect pest and diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Each 12 metre x 1 metre seed bed, 15 - 20 kg dried and crust cow dung or compost, Urea 220gm, TSP 120 gm, MP 160 gm mixed with 20 litre water and then sprayed by a water can, Light irrigation may be given after application of the fertilizesrs.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The roots coming out from the polybag should be pruned by sickles.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">After pruning of the roots seedlings should he arranged in line according to height or size.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">If unpruned the large seedlings will enter into the soil causing problem while uprooting.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Seedling grows in seedbed under most favourable environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">So seedlings die if those fail to adapt in new environment after transplantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Normal growth of the seedlings may be hindered.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">So measures should be taken from one month before transplantation, to harden the seedling so as to make it stress tolerant.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">This is know as hardening of seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The seedling may be hardened, by performing the following intercultural operations.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The polybag should be kept in shade for 4-5days after transfer.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The shade given over the seedlings should be gradually removed so that seedling age exposed to sunlight gradually Seedlings should be arranged in the seedbed according to their height.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The roots growing out of the polybag should be pruned.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The fungal diseases of the seeding may be controlled in two ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">These are the part of disease protection.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Root and stem rot is a common fungal disease of forest tree seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Many seedlings die within one or two month after seed germination due to rottening at the base of the seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Seedlings of Euaclyptus, Mahogoni, Koroi, Garjan, Shegun, etc. controlling are morally attacked by this fungal disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The preventive measures of conrolling this disease are treat the soil and seed.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The remedial measures when the seedling are infested include application of fungicides.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Teh active and important fungicides are Cupravit, Dithane M-45 and Bordeaux mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Harmful insects frequently attack the seedlings in the nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Insects attack the twigs and young leaves of the seedling at the primary stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">If the intestation is low then the infested leaves or the seedlings may he uprooted and buried in the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">But if the infestation is high then insecticides should be sprayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Usually Diazinon 50 EC, Nogos 100 EC, Dieldrin 40 Sumithion 50 EC and Heptachlor 40 are used in controlling nursery insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The tree seedlings should carefully be transported from the nursery to the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">If the stem and leaves of the seedlings are damaged or dehydrated they mostly die after transplantation in the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">So the seedlings should be transported to the field carefully and rapidly after taking it from the nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Carrying of polybag seedlings are more advantageous.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">However, sometimes open seedlings with a lump of soil at the base and roots are also transported.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Observe the supplied sample seeds minutely and write its name.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Observe and write the size, shape and colour of the supplied sample seeds in the practical notebook and draw the seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Write the time (months) when the seeds mature.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Write the time of planting of seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Finely crush the soil clods.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Mix one part of cowdung or compost with three parts of the prepared soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Make 8 holes in two lines at two lines at the bottom and base of the polybag.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Fill the polybag with soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Shake the poly bag during soil fillings so, that no folds, occur in the polybag.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Arrange and keep the polybag standing in line in the levelled seedbed under partial shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Make two holes on the surface of the polybag soil by finger or by a small stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Sow one seed at each hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Fully cover the seed with finely crushed soil Give a light irrigation in the polybag after sowing of the seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Record the date of sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Irrigate the polybags daily in the morning and evening by water can.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Record the date of germination of the seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Observe the seedling until it grows to a height of 15cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Write the detail description of experiment in the practical note book.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
