<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-agri-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.603</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">274</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4155</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1223</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t19">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Rice is the main food crop of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Rice is the food of almost half of the total population of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Rice is cultivated in almost 80% land of our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Bangladesh Rice Research Institute has developed many improved varieties of rice and developed many cultivation technologies.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Now High Yielding Varieties (HYV) of rice have been cultivated in many areas of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The production of HYV rice is more than that of local varieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The leaves of HYV rice are thick, short and straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Hence get more sun light, and the leaves become deeply green.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Plant do not lodge because of their stiffness and shortness.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Plants can uptake more nutrients and hence give higher yields.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">As the plants remain green even during ripening of paddy grain they do not suffer from shortage of nutrients.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Production of rice is relatively higher than straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Infestation of pests and diseases in HYV rice is relatively low.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Depending on variety it can be cultivated during any time of the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Number of tillers is higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Rice can be cultivated well in silt loam and clay type of soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Pure and healthy seeds having 80% percent germination should be sown on seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">2-3 kg of seeds are required for one decimal (40 square metre) of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">There may be various germs of diseases with the rice seeds, which afterwards create various diseases on the rice field.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">That is why rice seed should be sown on the seed bed after making the seed free from germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The method of disinfecting rice seeds by applying some chemicals is called seed treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Healthy and viable seeds should be used raising rice seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">One kg of seeds can be treated with 20 grams of Agrosan M-20 or Agrosan GN.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The seeds are to be kept 24 hours after mixing the chemical uniformly.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Two seed beds can be prepared in one decimal (40 square metre) of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">In an area of 10 x 4 metre the size of seed bed will be 9.5 x 1.5 metre including drains.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">A space of 25 cm should be kept along all the borders and 50 cm space should be kept within 2 sub-bed of the seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Before sowing seeds in seed bed, the seeds will have to be dipped into water.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Different periods are required for different varieties of rice for sprouting.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Period required for Aus is 24 hours, for Aman is 48 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">3 kg of seeds required for 1 decimal of land will have to be sprouted by dipping into water.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Such germinated seeds are to be sown in seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">It is necessary of provide irrigation by keeping water always in the drains of seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">When weeds appear it should be uprooted.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Pests and diseases will have to be controlled when infestation takes place.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">When the seedling, become yellowish.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Then after two weeks of sowing urea should be applied to the seed bed at rate of 410 grams.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">When the seedlings attain I month of age then they become suitable for transplantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Before pulling of seedlings sufficient watering should be done in the seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Then the seedling should be uprooted with care so that the seedlings are not broken.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The seedlings, after pulling should be tied in a small bundles and then preserved.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Land for rice cultivation is to be prepared by pudding the soil well.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Puddle can be prepared by keeping water in the land and cross ploughing and laddering for 4-5 times.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Sufficient quantities of fertilizer requires to be applied in case of high yielding varieties of rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Fertilizers are to be applied in specific classes per hectare and per decimal.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The doses of fertilizers as mentioned above may be considered as average.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The chart does not contain cow-dung or organic manure.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Applicatiorn of cow-dung or compost at he rate of 20 kg per decimal will give good, yield.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">All the fertilizers except urea as mentioned above should be applied at the time of first ploughing and those are to be will-mixed with soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Urea is to be applied in 3 instalments.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">At the instalments 50% of urea is to be applied after 2 weeks of transplantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The remaining fertilizer is to be divided into two and first part is to be applied after 45 days and the remaining part is to be applied at dough stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Applying in the way will not waste fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">These plants well also get their necessary nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The doses of MP fertilizer should be applied one and a half times in case of red sandy soils and piedmonts of hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The amount of zinc fertilizers should be increased in silty soils of the Ganges regions are in the irrigation project areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">If the lands of haor areas and fertile then the amount of fertilizers needs to be decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The doses of the above fertilizers should be half, in case of local varieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">If 4-5 tons of dried well-decomposed organic manure or compost is applied per hectare, then the chemical fertilizers are to be decreased by one third.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Organic manures are to be applied at the first ploughing.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">In case of sandy structured soils M.P fertilizer should be applied in 2 instalments.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">If in the previous crop T.S.P M.P and gypsum are applied in proper doses then the above mentioned fertilizers may be applied at the rate f 50 % of the approved doses.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">If zinc sulphate is applied in any crop then there is no necessity to apply it for next two crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The land, where green manuring has been done during the first Kharif season of crop rotation, may be supplied will half the usual does of urea for crop production.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Seedlings of one month of age should be transplanted to the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The seedling should be transplanted without any delay after uprooting from the seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Small quantity of water should be kept on the land and transplantation should be plant to 25 cm and hill to hill distance should be 15-20 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">In every hill three seedlings should be transplanted.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Irrigation is very important in case of HYV rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Irrigation should be arranged when the depth of the standing water goes below 5 to 7 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">When the seedlings attain 50 to 60 days, there should be 7 to 10 cm standing water on the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">But water should be drained out before application of urea as top dressing.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The land should be irrigated again after 2 to 3 days of top dressing.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">True potato seeds (TPS) are produced for multiplication for BARI TPS-1 and BARI TPS- In previous days potato were cultivated from tuber seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But now a days due to use to true potato seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The production of potato has been increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Potato is winter crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Full October month (mid Aswin to mid Agrahayan) is suitable for sowing potato seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">For early harvest potato is also sown during mid August to mid September (Bhadra) But there is risk of crop damage due to heavy shower.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Soft and will pulverized soils are requited for potato cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">There should not be any lump of soil in potato field.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The lump, if any, should be broken with ladder and hammer.The land should be deeply ploughed for 4-5 times.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The land should be made plain as for as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Total quantities of cow dung Triple Super Phosphate (TSP), Muriate of Potash (MP), Gypsum Zinc Sulphate (as per requirement) and leaf the quantity of urea mixed with the surface soil at the time of land preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The rest amount should be applied after 30-35 days of seed planting that is at the time of second earthing up operation.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">For acidic sandy soils 80-100kg per hectare should be applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Application of amount of 8-10 kg boron per hectare produces very good potato crop when it is applied in sandy nature soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Whole potato can be used as seed or eyes of potatoes can be cut and used as seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">But whole seed is more dependable.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The cut seeds can be affected by germs and can be spoiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Besides this, the full seed gives higher yield than that of cut seed.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The requirement of seeds is determined by the size of seed and distance of sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Per hectare seed requirement is between 1 ton to 1.5 ton.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Potato seeds are generally sown in lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The distance between lines depends on fertility of soil, irritation facilities and varieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Line to line distance should be 60cms and in lines seeds should be sown at a distance of 25cms.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">After well preparation of the land small canal are made from one end to another of the field by pulling plough at a required distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Each canal should be 10- 12 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Seeds should be sown in each canal at a distance of 20 cm. and then covered with soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">If moisture contents in the soils are low then the seeds are to be sown a bit deeply.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Distance for line to line and seed to seed for cut seed potato are 45 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">x 15 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Seed must be treated before sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The improved certified seeds do not require treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The seeds of farmers can be treated before sowing by submerging the seeds in a solution of mercuric chloride for 1-2 hours when germs of seed coats are destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The mixture is prepared by mixing 1 gram.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">with every litre of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Irrigation: First irrigation should be given within 20-25 days after seed planting (during the emergence of stolen).</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The second irrigation should be given with 40/45 days and the third irrigation should be given within 60-65 days after seed planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Irrigation should be given at an interval of 4-10 day to get a higher yield of potato at an interval of 8-10 day to get a higher yield of potato in the northern region of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">When the plants attain a bight of 15 cms. the soils in between lines are to be loosened by spade or weeder.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Then these loose soils are to be pulled and given to the bottoms parts of the plants.When soils are dried after every irrigation, soils are to be loosened with spade.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The late blight disease of potato is caused by are fungal pathogen namely phytophthora infestans.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">At first small wet lesions are produced on the leaf twig and the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The lesion become gradually bigger and cover the whole leaves twigs and part of the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">When the relative humidity of the atmospheric air is higher then the disease spreads very rapidly to the whole of the field within 2-3 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The causal fungal may be seen white powdery material on the lower surface of the leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Some rest of burning smell may be felt surrounding the affected field.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The affected field shows alike bum plant materials lying on soil surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The early blight disease of potato is caused by an pathogenic fungal organism whose name is alternaria solani.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">At first small conical brown colour damp spots are product on the lower surface of the potato leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Blackish circular ring like light brown boundary spots are also seen along the infected spots areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The spots on the leaf petiole and on the stem seems slightly elongated.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The other major consequence to this disease are yellowing of the leaves and the plants, shedding of leaves and premature death of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Application of balanced fertilizer and timely appropriate irrigation schedule must be ensured.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Rovral fungicide at the rate of 2 grams per litre of water should be applied at the initial stage of disease infestation at an interval of 7 to 10 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The fungicide like Dithane M-45 may also be applied at the same rats and following the same produce.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The early maturing varieties of potato may be cultivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The potato stem and tuber rot disease is known to be caused by a pathogenic fungas namely Schlerotium rolfosi.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The base of potato plant stem is encircled by a brown banded spots due to the infection by this disease, The plant show curling symptoms specially the lower leaves become yellow due to this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">While reticular fungal spores may be seen on the surface of soil around the base of the diseased plant after some day schlerotia or fungal fruiting bodies (nodules) are farmed which shows like mustard seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Water is exuted from the potato plant and rottening starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Gradually the potatos are damaged due to rottening of the down stem base and the tubers.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The infected plant should be uprooted with the surrounding soil and to be removed from the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The soils of the land of potato plot should be ploughed deeply.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The larvae of potato cut worm is very strong 40 to 50 millimetre in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The colour of the upper surface is blackish brown, the sides have black stripes and its colour is grayish green, the body is soft and oily.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The young barva of the cut worm cut the potato seedling plant at the base of the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">It also make holes on the potato tuber and damage the potato crop field.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The larvae of cut worm remain hidden beneath the surface soil at day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The cut plant of potato are usually seen to remain at the side of the cut plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">If the infestation of potato cut worm in not so high, than the larvae may be physically damaged identifying its presence near the cut plant and finding it by up turning the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">If the infestation seen to be very high, than insecticides should be applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Chloropyrophos (Dursban) 20 EC may be sprayed at the rate of 5 millimetre per litre of water waiting the soil and stem base of the potato plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The spray should be given 30-40 days potato tuber planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The moth of the potato wire worm in small the wings are narrow, the colour being grey brown having very small having feather like materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The fall grown larvae is whitish or light pinkish in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Its length is 15 to 20 millimetre, the worm dig holes within the tuber and damage making it undoable.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The potato tubers stored in the farmers homesteads in Bangladesh are greatly damaged by its potato wire worm.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The potato tubers stored at the homestead level should be uniformly covered by dry sands, wood ash, rice husks are sawmill dusts (0.5 centimetre layer over the potato tubers).</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Before storing the potato tubers, the wire worm infected tubers should be, identified and removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The potato crop become ready for harvested after 3 to 4 months of planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It is to be understood that it the leaves of potato plant starts getting aging yellow colour, it is becoming time for crop harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">But the crop is better to harvest when the whole plants are getting dry after yellowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The potato should be harvested in a manner that the tubers do not get any physical cut wound or damage.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The tubers with cut damage get rotten rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The best place for potato storage is the cold storage system.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">However. it is required to store large quantities of tubers at the farmers homestead locally during the peak harvest period.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">For these reasons and situations careful attention must be given to certain important points at the time of local potato tuber storing.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It will not be a right decision to harvest potato in cloudy weather or at a rainy day.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Potato tubers should be homestead at the morning shift.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The potato tubers should be harvested after getting its full maturity, the Halm killing (drying to potato plant in the field) should be done in the field before 7 to 10 days at harvest by culling its plant at the base, above soil surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Careful attention should be given so that the potato tubers do not get any physical infusing through plough are spading cuts.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">z transport to house from the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">It is usually wise to use bowls or buskets make of plastic while tilling the gunny bags by potato tubers.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It bamboo buskets are used for the purpose, than the inside of the buskets should be layered by gunny bag pieces sewing it properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The potato tubers must be transported to house as soon as it is harvested from the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">If it is required to keep the harvested tubers in the field of some time, than the let should be covered by light cloth or stores spreading tubers in a thin layer in shaded cool place.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Bringing it to home the potato should be kept in dry cool should place after clearing it thoroughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Careful attention should be given at the time of pouring tubers form the gunny to the home floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">It is not wise to pour tubers forcibly or from a greater height.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Land for sowing mustard should so finely prepared that the seeds can easily germinate.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The selected land should be pulverised by, 5-6 ploughing and laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The big lumps of the mustard field should be broken to make it plain so as to avoid water-logged condition ill part of the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">There should be drain so that excess water can out.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Before final ploughing half of urea and all of other fertilizers are to be applied and mixed well with soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The rest of urea is to be applied as top-dresseng during flowering time.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">During top-dressing care must be taken so that urea is not applied when leves are wet.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">That is why urea is to be applied at 10-11 am when the leves are sun-dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">If in the previous crop zinc sulphate was applied then there is no need of applying Zinc fertilizer to mustared crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Land for sowing mustard should so finely prepared that the seeds can easily germinate.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The selected land should be pulverised by, 5-6 ploughing and laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The big lumps of the mustard field should be broken to make it plain so as to avoid water-logged condition ill part of the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">There should be drain so that excess water can out.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Before final ploughing half of urea and all of other fertilizers are to be applied and mixed well with soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The rest of urea is to be applied as top-dresseng during flowering time.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">During top-dressing care must be taken so that urea is not applied when leves are wet.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">That is why urea is to be applied at 10-11 am when the leves are sun-dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">If in the previous crop zinc sulphate was applied then there is no need of applying Zinc fertilizer to mustared crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Deficiency symptoms of boron have been revealed in Dinajpur, Rangpur and Jamalpur region.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">In these areas Boric acid at the rate of 16-24 gm per decimal should be applied before final ploughing.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Generally mustard is sown by broadcasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Seeds are sown during final ploughing and covered with soil by laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Mustard can be sown in line also.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">In this method line to line distance should be 25-30 cm. and seed to seed distance should be 4-5 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The seeds are to be sown in 2-4 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The seeds will germinate within 2-3 days if the soils have moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">If moisture content of the soil of mustard field is sufficient, then there is not need of any irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Depending on soil moisture 2-3 irrigation will give good yield.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">First irrigation is to be given after 20-25 days of sowing and the second one is to be done during fruiting state.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">If the soil is dry before sowing then land preparation is to be done after a light irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Mustard can not withstand waterlogged condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">So irrigation water should not be allowed to stand for more than 5-6 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">If the plants are densely populated then thinning has to be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">In case of germination is hampered in any part of the field, seed should again be sown.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Thinning work should done within 10-15 days of germination.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">As soon as weeds are seen in the mustard field.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Those are to be weeded out.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Weeds can be controlled during thinning.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Mustard is frequently attacked by alternaria disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Black spots appear on the affected leves.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">In order to prevent this disease, seeds are to be treated with fungicide called captan.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">For treating 1 kg. of seeds 2.5 gm. of captan is required, or In tile field, 20 gms of fungicide Dithane M-45 is to be mixed with 10 litres of water and have to be sprayed after every 10-15.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Aphids are most harmful insect pest.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">All parts of the plant are affected by this insect.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Outbreak of this insect pest takes place when the plant is in flowering stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">To prevent the attack of aphids, Malathion-57 should be sprayed at the rate of 2 cc of insecticide mixed with one litre of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">In order to save the beneficial insect like honey bee, insecticide is to be sprayed during evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">A parasite called Orobanch grows in the root of mustard plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">When Orobanchy is seen in mustard field, it should be uprooted.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">When 80% mustard fruits become, straw-coloured and leaves of the plants become yellow, then it is the proper time for harvesting, it is good to harvest the crop, moistened with dew, in the cold weather of the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The crop can be collected by uprooting the plants or by cutting with sickles.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">But uprooting is the best method.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">After harvesting the crop should be sun-dried for 3-4 days and then to be threshed.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">After threshing the seeds are to be cleaned by winnowing and sun dried for 3-4 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Some immature seeds may be there.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">These immature seeds are to be graded out.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Lentil is the main source of vegetable protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The importance of lentil as food is revealed by the words Dal-bhat (pulse-rice).</sent>
				<sent id ="230">This pulse is also called the meat of poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">In our country lentil has been cultivated from ancient time in Rajshahi, Jessore, Pabna and Faridpur, districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Lentil is somewhat drought tolerant crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Its yield is good in rain dependent areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Loamy soils where water does not stand are suitable for lentil cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Land for lentil cultivation is prepared generally by 2-3 cross ploughing and laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Drains are to be made to take out water accumulates form excessive showers.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">After the land is well-ploughed, the seeds are to be evenly broadcasted and then be covered with soil by laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Seeds should be sown in lime so that weeding becomes easier.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Line to line distance should be 20 cms.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Seeds should be sown 2.5-3 cm deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Weeds should not be allowed to grow lentil field.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Weeding should be done within 30- 40 days sowing of seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Generally in our country irrigation does not require in cultivating lentil pulse.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">But if the soils do not have enough moisture then the land should be lightly irrigated before sowing seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Many types of pests can attack the lentil field.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Out of these, aphids are most harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">This insect-past attacks the leaves, buds, flowers and pods and sucks juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Aphid spread its generation very rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">So at the beginning of attack malation 0.05% should be sprayed after mixing with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">There may be outbreak of several diseases in lentil crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Out of these diseases like wilting, stem rot, root rot etc. are notable.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">These should be controlled by following right crop, rotation in cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">The seeds should be treated with vitavex-200 at the rate of 2 gm per 1 kg seed before sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The crop is to be cut when the pods of lentil become yellow or brown colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">After crop cutting these are to be sun-dried well for 3-4 days and threshed.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">After threshing, winnowing and cleaning are to be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Lastly preservation should be done in clean tin or polybag.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Go to the reselected farmers field with the teacher of the agriculture subject.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Clearly observe whether the land is high, wander of sun light and air or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Depending on available land measure on area of 40 sq.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">metre (10 metre x 4 metre) Mark the area by putting 4 sticks at 4 corners.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Open the land by spadding 2-3 times and supply required amount of water to the land and pond it.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Wait for one week.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">After one week apply 80 kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">cow-dung and plough for 2-3 times and pre pare the land thorough puddling.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Prepare drain of size 10 cm deep and 25 breadth, along the boundary of the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Throw the soils from the drain towards inside rather than throwing outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Keeping aside 25 for drain measure 1.5 metres from inner side of breadth and make it.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">In the some inner measure 1.5 metre from opposite direction and mark it.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Afterwards make so can wide drain having depth of 10 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">keep the soils on the both side of the drain.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Now see one seed bed having two piece have been prepared, the length and breadth of each piece are 9.5 metre and 1.5 metre respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">On this seed bed broadcast 3 kg. of sprouted seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Finally write down each step of work in your practical note book.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
