<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-agri-23</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.525</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">260</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3362</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1045</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t16">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">It is necessary to prevent or control disease of cattle for successful cattle farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Every body wants a healthy animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">So it is necessary to identify a healthy and a sick animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">It can be detected by seeing the external symptoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The external symptoms of a healthy animal are as following.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Remains vigilant towards surrounding situation and movement will be normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Nose, mouth and eyes would be clear and they will be droplets of sweats on the forefront of the nose.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The hairs of the body will be smooth and will drive away flies and mosquitoes by moving ears and tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">There will be taste for eating and will chew the cud after eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The nature of stool and urine will be normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">If there is any deviation of the symptoms as described above of a healthy animal, then it can be ascertained that the animal is sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The measures taken as precautions for not to be attacked by diseases are called preventive measures against diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">In order to prevent cattle diseases the following few measures can be adopted.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Recently vaccines and injections for different diseases have been invented.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The animal can be protected from many contagious diseases by regular vaccination or injection.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Different disease are cause due to malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The degree of disease due to malnutrition is decreased by feeding the cattle with balanced diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Cleanliness is the way of preventing many diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">By bathing regularly and feeding them fresh food and clean water.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The animals can be kept disease free.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">If the dwelling places of cattle can be washed with germicide everyday environment can be kept congenial.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The diseased animals should be separated immediately so that the disease can not spread out to healthy animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">If many animals die suddenly somewhere at the same time immediate preventive measures should be taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The important virus infected diseases are foot and mouth diseases, rabies and cow- pox.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Important diseases infected by bacteria are anthrax, black quarter, hemorrhage septicemia, remitter, pneumonia and titenus.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The foot and mouth disease is caused by viral germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Cows, buffalos, goats and sheep are mainly attacked.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">This disease is contageous.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Mouth and foot are the main infected place of this virus.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">When come in contact with infected animal, this disease can be spread through water, food and grazing land.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Virus enters rapidly into the mouth, tongue and foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The main symptom of this disease is the development of sores in the mouth and the foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">It takes, two to five days time to reveal this disease after the entrance of virus into the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Slivering occurs from the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The body temperature rises up to 40.5 C to 41.2 C. The infected animal can not eat anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Sores develop in the tongue and mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Milk of a milch cow decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The animal becomes weak physically.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">It can not walk due to development of sores on the foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The rate of death of infected calves is high.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The foot and the mouth should be washed repeatedly in potassium permanganate mixed water.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Boric acid and potash alum should be mixed with water and mouth should be washed repeatedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Teramycin injection is to be pushed once in a day for three days.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The animal infected by foot and mouth disease should be separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The farm or the cow-shed should be washed well with germicide such as dettol or phenyle.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Soon after the outbreak of the disease all neighbouring healthy animals are to be vaccinated.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Rabies is a deadly viral disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Generally dogs, cats and other wild animals carry the germs of this virus.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The cattle is infected when a dog infected by this virus bites it.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Virus remains in the saliva of the animal infected by rabies disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">This virus spreads in healthy animal as a result of biting by infected animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">This disease can be infected when saliva comes in contact with wounds of healthy animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The symptoms of the disease may be revealed after 14 days, 3 months, or sometimes 6 months of biting by an animal infected by rabies disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The infected animal shows the symptoms of madness.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Even comes definitely by to attack, saliva will be coming out from the mouth and later on paralysis will be revealed slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The animal will be inactive.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">It does not like to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The lower jow of the animal hangs.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The tongue tends to come out; the animal can not stand.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">At one time lies down on the ground and dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">No result of treatment can be had after the symptoms of the disease are revealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Because at that time the germs of disease had attacked the nervous system of the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">When a diseased cattle bites another's animal the biting place needs to be washed immediately with soap or citric acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The pet dog is to be vaccinated timely.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">In order to prevent the disease the unclaimed dogs are to be killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The cattle is to be vaccinated once at the ower portion of the belly.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">This vaccine measuring 30 ml. is to be pushed noce in everyday for 14 days in total.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">This is a contagious disease caused by viral germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">This disease affects the skin of the teats and udder of milch cow, the skin of the schrotum of ox and the skin of the mouth of the calf, this disease spread by the hands of milkman, teatcup of the milking machine, and by the bites of mosquitoes and flies.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The temperature of the diseased animal increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Red spots boils like mustard grains develop.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Those small boils joins together to make a blister.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Sores develop on the mouth and food canal.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Loose motion and bad smell in the mouth develop.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The animal suffers from respiratory problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The diseased animal dies within few days.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Germicide paste or lotion can be used in the sores.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The animal can be cured by pushing antibiotic or sulphonilamide injection.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The infected animal should be isolated and kept in separate house.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">As a preventive measure the healthy animals are to be vaccinated regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Anthrax is a deadly bacterial disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Cows, buffaloes, goats and sheep are infected by this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The infected lives for a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The temperature of the animal rises up to 41.7? C. Stools may be loose or mixed with blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Blood can be present in urine also.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Coal-tar like blood - mixed foam comes out of the nose, mouth and rectum.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The animal suddenly droops down and dies from convulsion.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">In many cases good results can not be obtained by treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">But it can be cured if antibiotic injection is pushed at the primary stage of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Good results can be obtained if 10-40 Lac unit of antibiotic injection can be pushed into the muscles of upper thigh for consecutive 3-4 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Outbreak of this disease mostly occurs during rainy season specially in wet and cold weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">So the animal is to be vaccinated before rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">This is also a deadly disease caused by bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Cows, buffaloes and sheep are mostly attacked by this contageous disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Generally, the cow calves and ox calves of 6 months to 2 years of age are mostly infected.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The germs enter into the body through cut-sores.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The infected animal becomes strayed from the heard and begins to drowse.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Later on the animal is seen to kuno.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The disease spreads rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Generally the infected animal dies within 48 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The body temperature of the animal increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Different parts of the body swell crackling sound can be heard when swelling places are touched.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The swelling places slowly turns into blackish colour and begin to rottening.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The infected animal becomes very weak and dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Soon after the symptoms of disease is revealed antibiotic medicines can be fed, same treatment can be followed as described in the case of anthrax disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">In order to control the disease the healthy animal is to be vaccinated after every 6 months from its age of 6 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">This disease is caused by bacteria, cows, buffaloes, goats and sheep may be infected by this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Animals of all ages are attacked.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Infections by this disease becomes severe when the animals are grazed in wet land after rains.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">This disease can spread through the saliva, stools and urine of the infected animal, polluted food and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The head, neck and dewlap swell of infected animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Body temperature increases and stool becomes loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Chewing the cuds and milking are stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Water comes from the eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The infected animal suffers from respiratory problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Tries to breath through the mouth by extending the neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The infected animal dies within 24-36 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Good results can be obtained if treated with antibiotic injection or sulphonelamide type of medicines.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The infected animal should be isolated from the healthy ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">All healthy animals of the village should be vaccinated, Regular vaccination is the main way of prevention of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">This disease is caused by one kind of bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">This disease spreads through cut wounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Generally the milch cow and goats are mostly infected by this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">After milking, reddish yellow coloured precipitation forms at the bottom of the milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Push cells forms inside the infected udder.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Amount of milk is decreased due to the infection of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The udder and teats gradually become stiff and milk is stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">If not treated timely, the udder becomes completely inactive.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The cow may die also due to severe infection by this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Regularly milking is to be done so that no milk remains in the udder.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Higher antibiotic injection is to be pushed to the infected cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The cow is to be kept in clean place so that the udder may not come in contract with any dirty materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Milking should never be done with uncleanness hand, Care should be taken so that the cow is not hurt.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The veterinarian is to be consulted as soon as the symptoms of the disease are revealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">This is also a bacterial disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">This disease is mainly caused in cold environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The infected animal catches cough and cold come, out through the nose and mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The animal breaths rapidly and sounds when breaths.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The body temperature increases due to intensity of, the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Treatment The infected animal is to be kept in dry-clean place. .</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The bed of the animal is to be made with straw so as to avoid cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Medicines to be gain as per the prescription of the veterinarian.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Always care is to be taken towards the environments of the dwelling place of the animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The infected animal should be kept in isolated from the healthy ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Generally this disease affects calves of tender age.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">With in short time the temperature decreases and comes below the normal one.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The calf gradually becomes inactive and weak gives up eating and ultimately dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">After birth the calf should be fed colostrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The veterinarian is to be consulted for treatment of the infected calf.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">This is a deadly bacterial disease of the calf.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Calves up to six month of age are found to be attacked by this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The disease spreads through dirty feeding pan.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Many calves may be affected with diphtheria at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The body temperature increases from the very beginning, the animal salivates and do not wants to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Suffers from cough and respiratory problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The body weight decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Treatment to be administered as per prescription of veterinarians.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Good results can be obtained when treatment and cares are taken timely.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The feeding pan should always be kept clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Some times two creatures live together in assistance with each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">At this case if one creature depends for its livelihood on the other, then the benefited creature is called parasite.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The on which parasites live is called host.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">In Bangladesh, 80-85% of cattle population are attacked by parasites.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">External parasites cause tremendous loss to the cattle in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">They damage the skin of the cattle by biting and sucking blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Among the harmful parasites of the body of the cattle, the important ones are flies, mosquitoes, lice, tick and mites.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">These external parasites live on the skin of the body of the cattle and suck blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">As a result of infestation the affected animal rubs its body with hard rough materials and cause damage to the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Besides these, the parasites make small holes in the skin thus decreasing its value.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Most of the time they lay eggs by piercing the skin and cause sores in the hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">At the attack of excessive external parasites the body activities become hindered the animal eats less and as a result milk production decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Working capacity also decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The veterinary doctors need to be consulted in controlling external parasites.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Medicine is to be used on its body as per the instruction of the veterinary doctors.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">This disease is contagious and caused by fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Cattle are mostly hump sores.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">It is mostly found in the surroundings of the mouth and eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">They are to be treated as per prescription of the veterinary doctors.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Yoke Sores : Generally sores are developed on the skin by continuous rubbing by the yoke.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The attacked place swells.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Its boundary is increased when germs of diseases and flies inject the sores.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">If not treated timely the activities of the animal may be stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">For controlling the disease, the animal has to be allowed rest and medicine should be applied on the sores.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Hump Sores: Flies mostly spread this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">If sores are developed on the hump by germs flies increase the area by sitting on those sores.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Flies lay eggs there.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">As a result the sores increase and in many cases rotting starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The animal decreases eating and loses working capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Treatment is to be done as per prescription of the veterinarian.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Cow Sheds surrounding places and grazing land should always be kept clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">It would be better if sodium borate be spread in the cow- shed.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Cattle should not be grazed in water logged fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The bodies of the cattle are to be cleaned by brush.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The cattle are to be bathed regularly by clean water.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Ticks and mites are to be killed manually with hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The rubbished are to be dried and the cow sheds are to be smoked at night regularly by burning the dried rubbishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">These disease are developed due to shortage of balanced diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Care should be taken so that cattle can be fed with balanced diet as per their requirements.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Despite supplying them with proteins, carbohydrates, fatty foods they should also be supplied calcium, phosphorous, magnesium, cobalt, zinc and vitamins.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Bone diseases milk fever and sterility are among the diseases caused due to malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">This disease may develop just after giving birth to the calf.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">This disease is due to malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">This milk fever is the result of coming out of excessive calcium with milk of the cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The cow attacked by this disease lays down on the ground and by turning the neck adjoins the head with the back.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The cow may die if not treated timely.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">At this time the cow should be given enough green grass and food enriched with calcium and mineral materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Immediately the veterinary doctors should be consulted.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">A. Preservation of Vaccines : If vaccines are not preserved in right methods their activities are lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Directions for storing are written on the vial.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">It written on separate paper also.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The vaccines those are kept in vial or spool in freeze in dry condition should be kept under zero degree temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">That is why these vaccines are to be kept in the deep freeze of the refrigerator, The liquid vaccines of anthrax, black quarters, mouth and foot disease and hemorrhagic septicemia are to be put into vials and kept at a temperature of 40? C.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The vaccine should not be used after the expiry of the mentioned date.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">B. Transportation of Vaccines : In order to send the vaccines to different places, these are to be transported in proper way.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">If there is any mishandling in transportation the quality of vaccines may deteriorate.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">After the vaccines are supplied to the district head quarters in cool van those are to be kept in cool room or can be taken in small flasks with ice for use.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The coolness is to be maintained till the expiry date for use.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Otherwise the quality of the vaccines will be lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">C. Usage of Vaccine : Usage. of vaccines is to be known from the vaccine production centers at the time of collection of vaccines.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Besides these, usage procedure is written on the body of the vial.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The introductory information on the procedure of use of the medicine is also may be available on the printed literature of the package:</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Introduction to different types of vaccines are briefly given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">There are several types of contagious disease in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Adequate quantities of vaccines of all diseases have not yet been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The Vaccine for Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) : This vaccine is to be injected under the skin or below the dewlap.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">For every cow or buffalos injections are to be pushed.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Again this injection is to be pushed after 4 months and then it is to be pushed once in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Rabies : This vaccine is to be pushed in the belly of cow and buffalo once daily.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Daily 30m1 are to be pushed for 14 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Dogs of 3 months of age are to be injected in muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">This vaccine is to be used after an interval of one year.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The vial of the vaccines is to be kept in freeze.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">These vaccines are to be pushed with pure water.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Method of Determining Body Temperature of Cattle Femenhite thermometer is used in determining body temperature of cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">During use shaking well lowers the mercury of the thermometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Thermometer is placed in the rectum of the animal in such away so that it touches the mucus membrane and kept for 2-3 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Then it is brought out to take reading for determining actual temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">In the first step of diagnosing a disease the temperature, pulse rate and breathing rate are examined.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Determination of pulse rate of cattle is very simple.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The pulse rate can be known by pressing the fingers lightly on the artery of the jaw or on the artery of the lower side of the base of the tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Pulse rate may change with the increase of age.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Generally pulse rate is higher at the tender age.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">It decreases as the age increases.Normal pulse rates of cattle are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">It is necessary to know the per minute breathing rate of cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Changes in breathing determine its illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Hence arrangement should be done for its rapid treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">But some times breathing can be high or low due to some normal reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Such as, when the stomach is excessively full, when excess fat accumulates in the body, when the animal becomes excited during pregnancy for doing hard labour in higher temperature of the working area etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Breathing rate can easily be determined by counting how many times the chest and belly rises and falls per minutes during motionless position of the animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Besides this per minute breathing rate can be counted by keeping hand in front of their noses.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Pasting medicine on the external part of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Pushing injection directly into the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Before feeding medicine, it should be thought what type of medicine is to be fed liquid medicine, power medicine, pills tablets, bolles, capsules etc. are some of the types of medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Piercing needy into the muscle-Generally injection is pushed into the muscle of back part of the animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">In this method the needy is forcibly pierced through skin into the muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Afterwards the medicine of the syringe is pushed.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Piercing needle into the vein-Injection is pushed into the thick veins of the two sides of the neck of the cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Piercing needle into the membrane of the belly-In this case injection is pushed into the skin of the belly.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Pushing the needle in the gap of the bone of the waist.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Injection is to be pushed in the injection of last bone of the waist and the first bone of the tail.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
