<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-agri-10</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.21</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">181</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2635</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">863</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t2">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The principle source of protein for the peoples of Bangladesh is fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The supply of 63 percent of protein in Bangladesh comes from fisheries.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">About 10 percent of the population is dependent on fisheries resources for their livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The climate, soil and water of Bangladesh are very suitable for the culture fish throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">So, fisheries resources have a great potential for its development.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">During present time, the production from fisheries sector started increasing due to the development, execution and extension of appropriate fish culture technologies.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The production of fisheries during 1994-95 was 12 Lac tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">This production has been raised to about 24.40 Lac matric tons during 2006-The shrimp culture has widely extended in the costal belt of Bangladesh and resulted in increased export at the satisfactory level.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Though the production from the marine and closed water sources have increased satisfactorily, the production from the inland open water sources have greatly decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The production of Hilsa is very important among the open water fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The per capita consumption of fishes has decreased to 27gm from 33 gm during the last 10 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Now the availabity of fish consumption per capita has been increased upto 46 grams.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">But the necessity of fish consumptions is about 50 grams.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Bangladesh have wider fields of fisheries resources due to natural and environmental reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">According to the characteristics of the water bodies the sources of fisheries may be classified into two categories.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In general, the fresh water and the water of semi-saline coastal area are known as inland water.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The inland water sources in Bangladesh measures to 45 Lac 75 thousand 706 hectares.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The inland water bodies of Bangladesh may be categorized into two sub-classes according to its size and structural composition.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">An inland fresh water which is bounded by dike or high land is called inland closed water.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The area of inland closed water in Bangladesh in about 5 Lac 28 thousand 390 hectare.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Fisheries may be cultured scientifically in these inland closed water.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">About 39 percent of the total fish production comes from the inland closed water in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The comparatively large sized fresh water not within dikes or high land boundaries are known as inland open water.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Rivers, canals, Haors, Kaptai lake and flood plain are in Bangladesh are classified as inland open water.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The total area of inland open water in Bangladesh is about 40 Lac 47 thousand 316 hectare.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Fish is not usually cultivated in inland open water.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">But the naturally grown fishes are frequently harvested from such water.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">More than 41 per cent of the country's fish production comes from the inland open water.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The marine fisheries constitutes about 20 percent of total fish production in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The Bay of Bengal is on the south of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">So many species and varieties of fishes and shrimps are found in the Bay of Bengal in large quantities.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Mechanized boats and trawlers from marine water harvest the fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The production of fishers in open water has been reduced due to many natural and man made problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The important causes may be summarized as follows: Reduction of volume of water sources due to natural and increased of rate of siltation.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Inappropriate irrigation and drainage plans and embankments.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Indiscriminate harvest and destruction fish fries and fishes with eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Drying of low land and Haors during the day winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Conversion of fisheries fields to crop fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The natural habitat of fish movement and fish breeding are seriously disturbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Application of pesticides to the crop fields indiscriminately.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Increased pollution of water due to disposal of toxic industrial wastes in the rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Catching small fishes by using a kind of net, which is prohibited?</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Steps have been taken to conserve fisheries resources of the open water, to extend fish cultivation in closed water and to promote shrimp culture in semi saline coastal areas, besides, steps have also been taken for ensuring the expected fish production through integrated fish cultivation and management programmes.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The inland open water is the most important source of the fisheries resources in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">About 41 percent of the total fish production comes from inland open water.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">For these reasons, programmes for releasing fish fries in open water have been taken for increasing the production of fish in an experimental way.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Besides the following steps have been taken for the development of fisheries resources in the open water.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The execution of the fisheries Act.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">have been strengthened so as to prohibit the use of illegal net and destruction of small size fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The leasing system of the water resource has been stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The leasing of Khas government water resource on the basis of the long term production plan has been introduced instead of leasing on the basis of collection of revenue.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The sheltered areas or Abhoy Asram have been created to ensure free movement and breeding of fishes of specific and important place of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Any sort of fishing has been prohibited in these special areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The fish cultivations have been extended in closed water through the development of appropriate technologies, involving more ponds under programme and through intensive training.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The government agencies are setting demonstration ponds or fish farms for the extension of improved technologies.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">It has become possible to produce up to 10 tons of Rui fish per hectare of ponds under this programme, which has become a great hope for the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The average production of fishes in ponds has increased from 1.5 to 3 tons per hectare due to the execution of these fisheries extension programmes.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The cultivation of shrimp has greatly increased in the coastal areas during the last 4 to 5 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The potential places of coastal shrimp culture have been identified.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Programme for necessary infrastructural development, establishment of demonstration farms and hatcheries and farmers training are being implemented for the extension and improvement of Bagda and Galda shrimp culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Steps have been taken by the government for integrated fisheries cultivation in the areas developed due to construction of irrigation, drainage, flood control, and other related infrastructure.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Once upon a time, the tanks, ponds, rivers, canals, lakes, Haors, Baors etc. were full of fisheries resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">But the indiscriminate harvest of fishes, mass harvest of fish fries and female fishes with eggs, use of current nets and harvest Nala and Jatka of without conservation of fish resources of the open water have resulted in serious deficiency of fishes in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In this context, it may not be possible to increase fish production unless the released fish fries are allowed to grow to a particular size.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">In order to overcome these problems Fisheries Conservation Act 1950 was passed by the government in the year Later on, the Act was modified and revised in the years 1982, 1985, 1987, 1988 and 1995 to make it more adaptive as per requirement of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The major points of this Fisheries Act may be mentioned as follows: The natural movement of the fishes in the rivers and canals cannot be hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Hunting or harvesting of fishes through the use of explosives, guns and arrow is prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The natural habitats and breeding zones of fishes can not be disturbed by using poisons, disposing toxic industrial wastes or by any other way or ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Without a view of cultivation, the fish fries of Rui, Katla, Mrigel, Kalibaush, Ghania, etc. measuring less than 23 cm cannot be harvested during July to December (Mid Ashar to Mid Poush).</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Harvesting of Rui, Katla, Mrigel, Kalibaush and Ghania of any size is prohibited during the breeding season.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Harvesting of Shol, Gajar and Taki fries are prohibited in open water bodies from April to June (middle of Chaitra to middle of Jaisthya).</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Jatka is prohibited to catch to carry and to sell during November to May.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Use of current net is strictly prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Fine or jail or, both punishments may be given to the defaulters of the laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Besides, Fisheries Conservation Act, the following Acts and Regulations related to development fish culture are in vogue in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">By an oder SRO no.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">41 law/2008-20/02/08 Government has been prohibited to import, carry, culture, sell, receive or market, expose and possess any species of fish of piranha group.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">A fish may be defined as an vertebrate animal living in water having cool blood, and which perform respiration through gills and move with the help of different fins.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The fisheries resources of Bangladesh may be classified into 3 categories according to the characteristics of the habitats.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The fishes which grow in the inland closed and open water namely ponds tanks, rivers, canals, Haors, Baors, lakes, etc. are known as fresh water fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The examples of fresh water fishes are Rui, Katla, Shing, Magur, Puti, Koi, Taki and Boal.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The water of the estuaries and rivers mouths are of the semi saline in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The fishes growing in such habitats are known as semi saline fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The examples of semi-saline fishes are Bhetki, Poa, Laitya and Coral.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The fishes growing in the salty water of coastal areas and in the Bay of Bengal are known as saline water fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The examples of saline water fishes are Hilsa, Rupchanda, Churi, Bele and Datina.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Fishes having certain characteristics are suitable for cultivation in the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Rapidly growing and tasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Have high nutritional value and tasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Market demand and price is higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Fish fries are easily available.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">May be cultured in a mixed manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Can survive in a relatively unfavorable environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Resistance power of diseases is higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Fish fries may be produced through artificial breeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Fishes are not voracious.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Fishes those eat supplementary feed.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The fishes suitable for cultivation in ponds, among carp fish are Rui, Katla, Mrigel, Silver carp, Common carp, Grass carp, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Rui is basically a river fish of our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">However, Rui is very suitable for cultivation in the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Rui is a very popular and tasty fish in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Morphological Characteristics: The head of the Rui is comparatively smaller than its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The dorsal side is more convex than the ventral.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The lips are thick, ridged and have two short barbles at the apex of the lips Food and Feeding Habits:</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Rui fish take most foods from the mid layer of the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">It takes planktons as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Rui fish likes zooplankton at fry, fingerling and young stages but takes phytoplankton and decomposed organic materials as natural common feed.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Maturity and Reproduction: Rui can grow to a length of about one metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">It attains reproductive maturity in a period of three years.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Under favourable environment, Rui fish release eggs in the month of mid April to mid July (Baishakh to Shraban months) in open water.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Eggs may also be produced from Rui artificially.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Rui does not release eggs in, closed water.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Katla is a rapidly growing fish and is very suitable for cultivation in ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Its original habitat in this country is the open water and rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The growth rate of Katla in the hoar, baors, rivers and canals is very satisfactory.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Morphological Characteristics: The body is short and the head is comparatively larger.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The mouth is wider and lightly curved upwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The upper lip is thin but the lower lip is thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The dorsal side is more convex than the ventral side.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The colour of the dorsal side is dark gray, and lateral side is silvery white.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The fins are blackish in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Food and Fooding Habit: Katla mainly eat upper layer food of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Katla basically eats zooplankton and sometimes may also eat phytoplankton.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Maturity and Reproduction: Katla fish do not release eggs in closed water on normal condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Its length may be 1 metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It attains maturity within 3 to 5 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">A katla fish of normal size can produce about 15 to 30 Lac eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Under favourable condition katla lays eggs during mid May to July (Jaistha to Sravan months) in some specific rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Fries of katla may be produced in hatchries by artificial breeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Mrigel is also a river fish of this country like Rui and katla.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Mrigel is very suitable for culture in ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">It is a rapidly growing fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The body of Mrigel is longer and straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The upper jew is slightly curved downwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">There are two short barbles at the tip to lip.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The dorsal side is grey, while the lateral and ventral side is silvery white.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Food and Food Habits: Mrigel is a bottom dwellers.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">It takes food from the bottom of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Mrigel likes to eat microorganisms, zooplankton and organic materials found in the bottom mud the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Maturity and Reproduction: The length of Mrigel is 1 metre and weight 8 to 9 kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">It attains reproductive maturity within two years.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">A female matured Mrigel can produce 1 to 5 Lac eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It lays eggs during the month of mid April : to mid July (Baishakh to Sraban months) in specific rives, It dose not lays eggs in stagnant water, Fries may be produce by artificial breeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Silver carp originally comes from China and Russia.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Silver carp may be cultured with native carp successfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Silver carp is a rapid growing fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Morphological characteristics : The body is covered with silvery white scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The abdominal side is more convex than the dorsal side, The middle portion of the fish is wide which gradually narrowed towards the tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The colour of the dorsal side is slightly grayish.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Food and Food Habit : Silver carp take the food from the upper layer of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Generally it takes the phytoplankton as food, Silver carp also eat decomposed aquatic plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Maturity and Reproduction : Silver carp does not lay eggs in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">They lay eggs in river under normal condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">However, artificial spawning may be done and fishes may be produced in hatchery.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The original habitat of Grass carp is China a Russia: It is suitable for mixed culture with other carp fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Grass carp can eat aquoas weeds and small plants and keeps the environment of the pond clear.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Morphological Characteristics; The shape of body of Grass carp is like Mrigel, however there is no barbles on the lips of Grass carp like Mrigel.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The dorsal fin in smaller, the colour of the dorsal side is slightly greenish.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Head is smaller comparatively than the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It can eat in all layers of pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Grass Carp likes soft aquoas weeds and green grasses.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Grass carp does not lay eggs in closed water.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It releases eggs in rivers, canals and open water.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Artificially spawning may be done and fries may be produced in hatcheries.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Common Carp is known to be originated from the temper it region of Asia namely in the south China.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">There are two types of Common carp found in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">These are Carpeo and Mirror carp.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The body of Common carp is flat.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The head is comparatively smaller than the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The body of Carpeo is covered with redish scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">There are few rows of scales on the dorsal side of Mirror carp.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The colour of the dorsal side is light brown, the abdominal side is golden in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The scales is relatively larger than the carpeo.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The Common carp is bottom dwellers of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">They dig hole at the bottom of the pond and take food like insects, micro-organisms as available in the mud.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">It also eat decomposed organic materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Maturity and Reproduction: Common carp lays eggs ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">It lay eggs two times in a year, once in winter season and the other in summer or rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Collect the above mentioned fishes from a pond with the help of teachers or from a nearby market as suggested by the teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Arrange the fishes side by side in the tray after collection.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Campare and study the specific morphological characters of the fishes as described in this chapter with the characters of the fishes kept in the tray.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
