<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-agri-11</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.243</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">310</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4651</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1297</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t3">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The physical and chemical characteristics of the water of a pond are controlled by the structure of the basal soil, chemical characteristics and different mineral ingredients contained in soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">That is, productive capacity of any pond depends on the conditions of the basal soil of that pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The characteristics of water influence the livelihood of the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The productive capacity of a pond can be ascertained by observing the physical condition of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The physical characteristics are of following types - Production of fish is hampered when depth of water is too deep or too shallow.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">When the depth of water of a pond ranges from 1.5 metre to 3 metre fish culture becomes profitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Clearness or Transperency of Water : If the water of the pond is muddy or opaque sunrays are obstructed to enter into water.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">As a result production of fish food is decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">This hinders growth of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The productive capacity of a pond is increased when the transparency of water becomes 5 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Temperature : The growth of fish is also dependent on the temperature of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Growth of fish is less during winter and more during summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">For Rui(Carps) types fish temperature ranging from 25?- 35?</sent>
				<sent id ="14">C is ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Sunlight: The sunlight directly influences the production of natural food in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">If there are big trees on the banks of the ponds, the branches of the trees should be cut to ensure entrance of sunlight profusely into the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The floating water hyacinth, helencha etc. create obstruction to enter the sunlight into the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">These will have to be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Dissolved Oxygen: Oxygen is essential for life.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Oxygen released by the process of photosynthess by phytoplankton and aquatic plants is dissolved in, water.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Some amount of oxygen from air is also mixed with water directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The fish, aquatic plants and animals living in the water respire with the help of this oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Oxygen is also utilized in the decomposition process of organic mater in the bottom of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">In order to maintain sustainability in the production of the pond presence of required amount of oxygen is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">For successful, fish culture it is best to heve 5-8 mg of oxgen per litre of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Dissolved Carbondioxide: As oxygen is essentially required for life, so carbondioxide is also important for the preparation of natural food of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">But if the amount of carbondioxid is increased somehow an action of poisoning develops.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">If the bottom of the pond contain more organic matter and clay mud then there will be excessive carbon dioxide when temperature become high.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Fish production become good with the presence, of 1- 2 mg carbondioxids per litre of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">PH Value :-pH can determine whether the water is acidic or alkalin.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Relatively alkalin water is congenial for fish culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The pH of water ranging from 6.5 -8.5 is helpful for the natural production of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Phosphorus: The fertility of a pond depends on the presence of phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Natural water has only small amount of phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">This phosphorus is converted into phosphates.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Sufficient amount of phytoplanton is produced in the water in the presence of require amount of phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Generally aquatic plants grow in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Some of the pond aquatic its plants and animals are small.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Microscope is required to see these plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">These small aquatic plants at animals are natural food of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Again some aquatic plants and animals create troubles for fish culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The following aquatic plants and animals grow in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Leaves and stems of these types of aquatic plants float on water, but the roots hang in water Such as water-hyacinth, topa hyacinth, khude hyacinth etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">These hinders the entrance of the sunlight into the water and take the nutrients from the fertilizer used in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">As a result production of pond is decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">These types of aquatic plants remain at the bottom of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">These hinder the entrance of the sunlight into the deep water and also create obstacle in the movement of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Such as leaf-sedge, thorn-sedge, nazas etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Some aquatic pants have their roots in sides of the pond, but the stems and branches emerge and grow on water- Such as Arali, Dal, Kalmilata etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Aprli plant resembles some extent to broadcast Aman plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">There are several types of Dals.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">These are familiar in different local names on the basis of regions of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The smaller bio creatures of water, that is, small plants and animals of water are the planktons.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Planktons are the natural food of the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The presence of sufficient plankton indicates good productivity of a pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Phytoplankton: Small aquatic plant animals are called phytoplankton.They are green in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Phytoplankton's are natural food of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Such as-Diatom, Volvox, Spyrogyra etc. Excessive growth of phytoplankton hinders the certance of sunlight into the water of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Zooplankton: Small aquatic animals are called zooplankton.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Such as-Daphnia, Rotifera etc Zooplanktons are natural food of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Insects: Different types of insects live in the water and clay mud at the bottom of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">These are the food of fish and included in food cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Such as-Grubs of water hopper.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Fish culture is a cultivation process same as done in the case of crop production.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">As in the case of crop production, land is prepared by ploughing, irrigation, application of fertilizers etc. before plantation of seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The pond has also to be prepared in the same process before releasing fish fries.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The following steps will have to be followed in order to prepare a pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">If there is excessive clay mud at the bottom of the pond, then there are possibilities of remaining poisonous gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">harmful bacteria and insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">In order to improve the environment of the pond 20-25 cm. of mud should be kept at the bottom and the excess or additional mud will have to be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The clay mud can be removed by drying the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">If the bank of the pond is broken, fish may be going out or the pond during rainy season and at the salne time unwanted and predator fish can enter into the pond which will ultimately create trouble for fish culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">For this reason the broken bank should be repaired during dry season and grass should be planted there.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">This will help to make the bank hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The bank should be raised up to such height that it might not be inundated during flood.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The weeds extract nutrients from the fertilizers used in the pond and thus decrease natural food production of the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">This hinders normal livelihood of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Weeds can be cleaned by the following methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">By Using Physical Labour: The floating and movable weeds, such as-water hyacinth, helencha, kalmilata, dal etc. can easily be revoved by using physical labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Biological Method: After storing fish fries in the pond submerged weeds may grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">In order to control these weeds and make the environment proper the biological method is very appropriate.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Grass carp and Rajputi lives on grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">If these fish are stored in ponds they can eat the submerged weeds and keep the pond environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">By Using Chemical: Presence of excessive green algae in the pond creats hindrance to the livelihood of the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Fish may even die for want of oxygen due to presence of excessive moss or algae.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Excessive green algae can, be controlled by using 35 gm of copper sulphate per decimal for 1 metre depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The predator fish decreases the production of fish by eating the cultured fish fries and fish food.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Shol, Gajar, Chital Taki etc. are predator fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">By Drying out the Pond: After drying out whole water of the pond, the predator and unwanted fish can be removed by catching all fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">There are possibilities of remaining predator fish and harmful creatures in the mud by hiding.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">When the bottom of the pond is well-dried in the sun then the harmful insects and germs are killed and productivity of the pond is increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">By Casting Net: When the water of the pond is less predator and unwanted fish removed by casting nets again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Net casting should be done slowly by tieing bricks or other heavy materials with the lower portion of the net.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">By-Using Chemical Materials: it is not always possible to dry out a pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Again by net caste also complete removal of predator fish, may not be possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In such cases predator and unwanted fish and other harmful creatures, are removed by using chemicals like rotenon, phostoxin, bleaching powder etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">After blending rotenon with water and preadlng.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">phostoxin tablet to the pond and net castings are to be done twice or thrice.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">After one hour fish will be, seen to float on water, These are to be caught by pulling net.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Lime purifies the water of pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">It is essential to apply lime to the fish culture pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Lime supplies essential calcium for fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It decreases acidity of the soil and water and increases alkalinity.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">As a result it increases fertility of water and soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Lime destroys harmful insects and germs of diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The Doses of Lime Application: The dose of lime application depends on the existing organic matter of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Such as, red and brown coloured soils are acidic in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">In these types of soil lime should be used in more amount than normal doses.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The dose of lime application depends on pH value of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Method of Lime Application :Lime should not be spread directly to the pond.Quick lime is to be soaked with water in a pan or drum and when it becomes cold, it is to be spread though out the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Quick lime more effective than powdered lime.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Application of Fertilizer : Fish production depends on the production of excess phytoplankton, nitrogen, phophorus potassium etc. are requied.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Water does not always have these materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">the quantity of nutrient elements is decreased by fish collection,change of water and other natural reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">That is why fertilizers are used to provide these necessary elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Organic manures : The manures derived from animals and plants are called organic manures.Such as cow-dung,excreta of poultry brids,compost,green manure etc. Inorganic or chemical fertilizers :</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The fertilizers manufactured in mills and factories by chemical procedures are called inorganic or chemical fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Such as- Urea, Triple super phosphate(TSP),Muriate of potash(M.P)etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Doses of fertilizers in Pond : Doses of fertilizers depends on the characteristics of the soil and nature of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">for examples, ponds of sandy or clay types required more fertilizers than sandy loam soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Again the old ponds have much- organic matters at the bottom, so they required less quantitity of fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">But application of more fertilizer is required in case of newly excavated or reparied pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Fertilizers are to be applied at the stage of pond preparation before stocking of fish fries.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Regular application of fertilizers are to be done after storing of fish fries upto collection of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Method of fertilizer Application : Required quantity of fertilizer is to be kept in a pot and soaked with water three times than that of fertilizer during the previous evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Next morning the soaked fertilizers are to be mixed with water and then to be spread to the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Testing the presence of Natural Food of Fish in Water: Water enriched with abundant natural food will show light green or brown colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">After 5-7 days of application of fertilizers water of the pond is to be kept in a transparent glass and placed in sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">If small green or brownish insect like granular materials are visible, it is to be ascertained that the water has got natural food.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">In this condition the pond becoms ready for releasing fish fries.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Culture of Fries of Rui: The method of producing fries or fingerlings by releasing hatchlings are called fry culture or fry nursing.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The pond where hatchings are released and reared upto fry condition is called nursery pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">And the pond where fries are nourished to produce fingerlings are called rearing pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">In our country generally fingerlings are produced by releasing hatchings.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Selection of Pond: The size of the nursing pond should be 10-15 decimals.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The bank should be raised.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">There should not be any tree on the bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">It would be, good if there are opportunities of drying out pond waters or supply of fresh water, the water bodies of small sizes having low depth of water during fry production season or during the whole year, can be used as nursing ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Depth of Water: At hatching stage the fries become very delicate, so if the fries are released to a pond of deep water they will die.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">For this reason the nursing pond should have a depth of 1-1.5 metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Preparation of Pond : Preparation of pond includes making the pond suitable for living of the fries and managing necessary food production for the growth of the fries.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The pond has to be prepared as discucssed earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Afterwards the harmful aquatic insect will have to be controlled.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Control of Harmful Aquatic Insect: Before the hatching are released the pest aquatic insects are to be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">These can be controlled by polling mosquito nets of small loops or the following chemical materials can be applied for complete eradication of the harmful aquatic insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Aquatic insects can be controlled by the following method.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Application of Dipterex: Dipterex is to be, applied of the rate of 35 gm per decimal for 1 metre depth of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The required amount of dipterex should be mixed with water and then to be sprinkled throughout the whole pond 24 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">mixed with water and then to be sprinkled throughout the whole pond 24 hours before releasing the fries.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">By way of doing this the harmful aquatic insects will be fully removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The fries are not fully nourished by natural food.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">For this reason supplementary food needs to be supplied daily to the frie in addition to the natural food.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Fine rice bran, wheat husks, mustard oil cake, fish meal and blood of domestic animals can be supplied, as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Here under the ratios of some mixed food fishes are given.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Food is to be prepared after mixing the ingredient very well as per the ratio.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The prepared food should be sprinkled daily to the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">From 1 day after stocking of fries in nursing pond food is to be supplied as per following rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The required food is to be divided in to two and to be applied in the morning and in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">With 7-8 days of stocking fries casting gunny-net should not be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Onece after 8- 10 days and then after every 10 days mortality and growth rate the fires need to be examined by casting mosquite net.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">When the colour of the water become excusive green or there is green layer on the top portion of the water, then supply of fertilizers and food should be stopped temporarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">If the management system as discussed is followed properly then the size of the fries will become 5-10 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">(average weight 10 gms) within 2 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Its ability rate can also be kept above 60%.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Fries of this size are suitable for sale.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">As finger lings and can be released to stocking pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Identification of Fries of Different Types of Fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Rui: The body is some what elongated.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Black round shapd spots, are present at the base of the tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The margin of the fin is light redish.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The upper lip is extended at the front and notched.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Katla : The head is bigger as compared to the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Round black Katla spots are not present at the base of the tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The dorsal, caudal and anal fins are of grey colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He mouth is broad, the lip is thick but not notched.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Mrigel : The body is slender and elongated, There are rectangular black-spots at the tail base of the There are tape-like light black mark covering whole length of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The caudal fins are red colour, lips are equal and there is a barble.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The mouth is curved downwand.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Silver carp : It looks like chapila, The body is flat the colour is bright white and the fins are of grey colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The dorsal fin is small.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Common carp : The body is broad and of light golden colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The dorsal fin is spread almost the dorsal tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The head is small, the dorsal side of the fish is raised.There is a hard spine at the dorsal fin.There are two pairs of barble at the lips.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Pisciculture is a profitable investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Different culture practices have be eveloped depending on the cultures of different regions, availability of inputs, knowledge about technologies and marketing facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">In this method some fish fries are released in pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Neither, fertilizer nor food are supplied to the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The fish maintains their liveligood by eating natural food produced at the fertility of the water and soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">No other nursing practices are done.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Pisciculture by preparing pond properly, stocking fries on the basis of varieties and number partial application of fertilizers and supplying food occasionally is called semi-intensive pisciculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">In this method different varieties of fries are released in definite number in order to utilize the natural food at different layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Fertilizers are applied in order to meet up the demand for natural food and more over some supplementary food are also supplied.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The method of pisciculture by proper pond preparation, stocking of right number of healthy fries on the basis of varieties, regular application of fertilizers in order to supply sufficient natural food, supply of required quantity of supplementary food for balanced nutrition control of water characteristics and ensuring improved management practices is called intensive fish culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">It is aimed at achieveing more production form a pond within a shortest possible time.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">In this method fish production can be achieved to highest productivity of the pond by adopting appropriate technologies.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Rui, Katla, Mrigel, Kalibaush, Silver carp, Grass carp, Common.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Carps are called carp fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">These types of fish eats foods from different layers of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Fish of different varieties are cultured in a same pond in order to get increased production by completely utilizing natural food produced in different layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This type of fish culture is called mixed culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Fertile land, and water, sufficient sunlight, healthy fries, fertilizers, supplementary food and good nursing are required for successful pisciculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">At the time of selection of the pond the things needed to be considered are plaec soil characteristics, depth of water, size volume, environment etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">During the selection of pond it is to be seen that the pond is very near to dwelling houses, this will help timely supply of food and fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Ponds ranging form 30 decimal to 1 acre of size are more suitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">There should not be big trees or bushes or shrubs on the bank of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The leaves of big trees fall into the pond and spoil its water.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Predators and other harmfu1 animals can live in the bush.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Loam type of soil is the best for pisciculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">For mixed culture of carp fish pond is to be prepared as per the method discussed earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Healthy strong fries are the precondition for increased production.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Fries are to be stocked after growing sufficient natural food in the pond, Fries of 8-12 cm. are to be stocked in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Of different varieties. of fries should be of similar size.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Number of Fries: The number of fries may be more or less depending on the management.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">In general, mixed culture of carp, the fries should be stocked as per following rates.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The member of fries may be increased proportionately if the supply of balanced food and improved managements are ensured.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">After stocking fries fertilizers should be applied to the pond regularly or one day in a week up to the time of fish harvest in order to supply sufficient natural food in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">It is better to apply fertilizers everyday for getting increased production.This will incur less cost too.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Process of Preparing Food : The measured amount of mustard oil cake is to be soaked in a pan for 10-12 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Then the soacked cake, bran and molasses are to be mixed together and small round balls will have to be prepared with the mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Determination of Quantity of Food : If there is sufficient natural food in the pond,then in case of carp fish,supplementary food is to be supplied at the rate of 3 percent of the total weight of the stocked fish of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">During winter 2 percent will be enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Method of Supply of Food : The required quantity of food is to be divided into two and to be supplied in the morning and in the evening .</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Food will not be wasted or spoiled if it is supplied at a definite time and in the definite place daily.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Necessary food is to be kept in a basket or a earthen pot and will have to be hung under the water with the help of a bamboo stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Food is to be supplied at different places at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">This will prevent competetion for food.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">To examine growth, health, and diseases of fish they are to be observed by net casting once in every month.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The dissolved oxygen and carbon dioxide and phytoplankton and zooplankton in water are the controlling factors for aquatic environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">That is why their quantity are to be regularly observed.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">As discussed earlier, the amount of natural, food in water can be known by determining transparency of water:</sent>
				<sent id ="231">If 1-2 ml plankton is obtained by sieving through net 100 litres water.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Then it is to understand that the pond has got enough natural food.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Harvest of fish is an important thing of pisciculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Fish grows rapidly upto a definite age.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Afterwards although food consumption is gradually increased, but physical growth does not take place at that proportion.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">So timely fish harvest is of great importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Rui, Katla, and Mrigel become 700 gm. to 1.5 kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">within 8-12 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Silver carp, Mirror carp and Grass carp become 1-1.5 kg within 6-7 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">After 6-7 months of stocking of fries the big fish are to be caught and sold out.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">At the same time same number of fries of same variety are to be released to the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">By this, increased production can be achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Some Problems of Pisciculture and their Remedies.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">reen coverlet on water When the water of the pond remains dark green for long time or develops a green coverlet on water, supply of food or fertilizers is to be stopped temporarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">These coverlets are developed for excessive natural food.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">When such coverlet is created fish may die for want of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Fish tends to gasp when there is want of oxygen in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">In this condition if the water is disturbed by bamboo beating or by swimming, good result can be achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The amount of oxygen can be temporarily increased by sprinkling water in the pond like a fountain with the help of a pump.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The want of oxygen can be removed by applying potassium permanganet at the rate of 100 gm for 1 metre depth of water per decimal.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The places of food supply should be intermittently checked to become sure whether the supplied food has completely been consumed by fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">If the water of the pond remains always muddy fish production will be decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">As a remedy 1 kg of lime per decimal is to be applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The muddy problem can also be solved by keeping bundless of straw at a corner of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Fish may be attacked by different diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Such as fin rot,lice,dropsy etc. Necessary treatment measures are to be undertaken after diagnosing these diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Shing and Magur are very tasty fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Their nutritive value is high.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">These fish has got great demand in the market for their taste and for wide use as diet of the patients.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">These are omnivorous fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The food of shing and magur are larvae and pupa of insects and mites, zooplankton and decomposed organic matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Shing and Magur are available in all the countries of South-west Asia and Africa including Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">In our country Magur may be 30-45 cm in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Shing and Magur can be cultured in all types of ponds,small or big.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">But shallow and small ponds are well-suited for their culture.2-3</sent>
				<sent id ="266">metre depth of water is good.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">The pond may be measures from 200 sq.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">metre to 4000 sq.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The bank of the pond may be vertical.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">It will be better if 30 cm brick made vertical wall or bamboo made fence can be erected on the bank of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The pond for Shing and Magur is to be prepared in the same way as done in case of carp fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">The fries of Shing and Magur can be collected from natural sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Fries of country Magur are also available at some government and non government farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">In cases of Shing and Magur culture, 200-300 fries can be released for every 40 sq metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Small amount fertilizer is applied to their ponds, if cow-dung is applied at the rate of I kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">per 40 sq.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">metre after every 7 days, then good result can be achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">In this case rice bran, mustard oil cake and fish meal can be supplied as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Food is to be supplied every day at the rate of 3-5% of the total body weight of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">But from the third month of culture the entrails of cows and goats can be supplied after cutting them.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">If supply of food and nursing are done regularly then in 6 months Magur can attain 130-150 gm, and a Shing 100-125 gm in weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">A harvest of Shing and Magur can be obtained in 6 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">In every harvest, production of 3-4 tons per hectare can be achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Go to the bank of a pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Measure the length and breadth of the pond in metre with the help of the tape and write down on the note book.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Multiply the length with breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Determine the volume of the pond in decimal by dividing the product of multiplication by 40.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Determine the total amount of urea on the basis of dose.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Write down the volume of the pond, names and quantity of fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Draw a diagram on the basis of size and measurement of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Subject -2 : Observation of aquatic plants and zooplankton of a pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Go to the bank of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Bring the floating and submerged weeds by pulling them with the help of a stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Take the weeds into the bucket.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Bring water with the bucket from the pond and sieve through a plankton net.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">In this way bring about 100 litres of water from different places of the pond sieve through the plankton net.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Now pour out the plants and zooplankton, collected in the bottle at the end of the plankton net, to a beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Observe the quantity of plankton in the beaker and bring the collected materials to the laboratory of the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Now take two drops of water from the beaker of plankton with the help of the dropper and put on a slide.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">See these though a microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Observe the phyto plankton and zooplanktons.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Observe the big weeds and classify those.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Draw diagrams of all the materials in the practical note book and label.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Go to a near by farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Collect some fries from there and after taking those into the bucket cover them and bring to the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Now examine the fries minutely.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Observe their heads, mouth, bodies, fins, colours, scales etc. Compare with the description of the text- book.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Identify the fries as to what varieties they belong to and write down the characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Now draw diagrams of the identified fries.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Mark the parts and write down the names of the fries.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
