<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-biology-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.728</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">194</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2724</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1078</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t24">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Observation, examination and discussion of livings beings are included in Biology.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Biology is the science of living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The term Biology comes from two Greek words (bios means life and logos means knowledge).</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Aristotle is regarded as the father of Biology.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">We find two types of life in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">One is plant while the other is animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Accordingly Biology has been divided into two branches: Botany and Zoology.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Botany deals with theoretical discussion and research about characters and other features of plants, while Zoology is limited in subjects relating to animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Biology has been divided into Botany and Zoology on the basis of nature of living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Inspite of this, now-a-days extensive research has been done on Microorganism.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">They influence human life in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">So for discussion about them a new branch is made.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">This is known as Microbiology.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Considering the subjects of living bodies on which discussion is made the whole range of Biology is divided into the following main branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Morphology: This branch deals with both the external and internal structures of organism.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The subject concerning internal .</sent>
				<sent id ="17">structures is also known as Anatomy.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Cytology: Each living organism consists of one or more cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Structures and functions of cells are treated in this branch of Biology.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Histology: In this branch discussion is made on structure, location and function of different tissues.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Physiology: This branch includes all the activities of living things e.g growth respiration, excretion, photosynthesis and other biological activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Taxonomy: In this branch discussion is made on identification nomenclature, and classification of plants and animals into groups and subgroups.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Genetics: How different characters are inherited from parents to offsprings, and how the processes can be controlled and improved etc. are brought under study and research in this branch.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Ecology: This branch considers the effects of environment on living organisms or living communities and also interaction between them.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Evolution: This branch deals with the origin and successive transformations of living organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The groups discussed above are the basic branches of Biology.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Scientists gradually started to utilize the knowledge of these branches for human welfare, and as a result applied branches of Biology were created.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Agriculture, Medical science, Breeding etc. are some of the important applied branches of Biology.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Applied Biology also includes Forestry and Horticulture, Fishery, Pest Control.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Animal Husbandry etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">There are numerous varieties of plants and animals on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Generally similar plants or animals are arranged in particular groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Some special branches of Biology have been created on the basis of different types of living things are under discussion and research: for example.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Phycology includes only members of algae; fungi are treated in Mycology; Virology deals with viruses only; bacteria are considered in Bacteriology;</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Helminthology is based on study of worms only; insects are discussed in Entomology.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Each of the above mentioned divisions has been divided into subdivisions or branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It has been mentioned earlier that research in Biological fields has greatly extended now-a-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Biology, as it appears today, was not the same the past 50 years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">It was believed that sweat-soaked warm clothing of men and some wheat, if kept together in a box for few days, rats would be produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">This wrong concept about the origin of life prevailed for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Subsequently ideas about origin of life have changed by the research works of various scientists.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Modern Biology is the result of research and thinking of some great scientists.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">This chapter introduces you with some of these scientists.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Aristotle: The great Greek scientist, Aristotle is regarded as the father of Zoology.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He first established Zoology as a branch of Science.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Aristotle was simultaneously a scientist, poet, thinker and philosopher.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">It is he who first mentioned about the basic similarities in the structure of plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">He stayed in an island named Lesbos for five years continuously and made research on animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">He wrote a book on animals and named it Historia animalium which is full of information and knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Theophrastus (370-285 B.C.): Little amount of works of the Greek philosopher Theophrastus is known to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Of those available, nine volumes of On the History of Plants and six volumes of On the causes of plants are important.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Theophrastus was the pupil of great philosopher Aristotle.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">He divided the plant community into four groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">For example: Trees shrubs, Undershrubs and Herbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">He is regarded as the Father of Botany.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Al Biruni (973-1048): Known as an world famous scientist and educationist.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Al Biruni was an Arabian citizen.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">His real name is Abu Raihan Mohammad Ibne Ahmed Al Biruni.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">He made contributions in different branches of science.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">He visited India during the reign of Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni and described the conditions prevailing in India in an attractive way.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Ibne Sina: He was a renowned Muslim philosopher and scientist.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He had excellent skill in Chemistry, Medicine, Mathematics, Astronomy and Literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">His full name is Abu Ali Hussain Ibne Abdullah Ibne Sina.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He composed more than hundred books on different subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Sixteen of which were written on Medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He had a fourteen volume compositions named Al- Kanun on Medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Nafis: He was an Arabian scientist.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">He first (300 years before William Harvey) described correctly the system of blood circulation in human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He was also a successful physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">His actual name was Abu Al Hasan Ali Ibne Al Nafis, He dedicated himself in the field of science for a long time, and died in Damascus at the age of eighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">William Harvey: William Harvey was a British scientist.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">He rediscovered the system of blood circulation in 1628 and as a result some of the previous ideas about it came to an end.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In 1651 he pointed out that life starts from the egg cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">He is considered to be the father of Animal Physiology.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He clearly described the systems of blood circulation and excretion in animals, and explained the relationship between the two processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">He published a book On the motion of the heart and blood in animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Anthony Von leenwenhoek (1632-1723): Dutch scientist leeuwenhoek first built the microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">But his microscope was not like that of today.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Descriptions of bacteria, nerve cell, Hydra, Volvax, etc. were written by him on observations through his microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">They have been found to be precisely correct.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Carolus Linnaeus (1707-1778): Swedish scientist Linnaeus introduced the system of Binomial Nomenclature for plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">A physician by profession, he was the professor of physiology in Uppsala University, Sweden.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Collecting numerous plants and animals he classified them and made their nomenclature.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">His Systema Naturae composed on classification of living beings is a famous research work.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Besides this his other two famous Botanical books titled Species Plantarum and Genera Plantarum are based on research work.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">He is considered to be the father of modern Taxonomy.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Charles Robert Darwin (1809-1882): English naturalist Darwin introduced the Theory of Natural Selection.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">He expressed his findings and ideas in his famous research publication, Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection in the year 1859, after observing the living communities of Galapagos Islands.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Alfred Russel Wallace (1823-1913): English naturalist Wallace made observation and research works in the Amazon plateau for four years.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">His renowned book `Travels on the Amazon and Rio Negro was written on this experience.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">He wrote The Malay Archipelago on his eight years research experience in Malay Peninsula.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The huge collection of insects he made has been kept preserved in the Hope collection centre of Oxford University.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">He is famous for the introduction of Natural Selection Theory along with Charles Darwin.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Gregor Johann Mendel (1822-1884): Austrian Priest Mendel performed research work with pea plants in his church garden for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Based on this research he established two laws concerning genetics, which are followed till today.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">He is regarded as the father of Genetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">George Bentham (1800-1884): The most notable work of this English Botanist is the composition of three volumes of Genera Plantarum along with Joseph Dalton Hooker.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Other books written by him are `Handbook of the British Flora.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">`Flora Hongkongensis, Flora `Australiensis etc. Thomas Henly Huxley (1825-1895): Renowned British Zoologist T.H.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Huxley did a lot of works on birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He termed birds as `glorified reptiles and proved that birds have been evolved from the reptilian ancestors.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Besides, he made extensive research on Zoology.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">He was a notable supporter of Charles Darwin's theory of Natural Selection.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Huxley described protoplasm as the physical basis of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Alexander Fleming (1881-1955): Alexander Fleming was a Microbiologists He observed in 1918 that some bacterial growth stops in a culture media where Penicaillium is grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">He tried to find out the reason behind it.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">From his quest and research he subsequently discovered the drug penicillin that has saved millions of lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He won Nobel Prize along with two other winners in the year 1945.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">David Prain: David Prain was an English physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">He obtained degree in medicine from Aberdin and Edinburgh.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Joining Indian Medical Service he came to India in His first Place of Posting was Luxmipur in Noakhali.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Calcutta Botanical Garden from 1887 to His famous book, Bengal Plants, Published in two volumes, widely treats plants of Bangladesh and adjoining areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Flora of Sundribuns is another notable book written by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Salim Ali (1896-1987): Known as the Birdman of India, Salim Ali was a renowned ornithologist.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He scientifically observed all birds of India and wrote an informative book.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The title of the book is The Indian Birds In addition to this he composed many other books on birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">His autobiography is also a famous publication.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">In 1983 the Indian Government awarded him Padmabhushan title in recognition of his research work.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Sir Hans Krebs (1900-1981): English scientist Krebs won Nobel Prize in 1953 along with F.A.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Lipmann in medicine and physiology for his research work on metabolism of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">He was appointed as the departmental head of Biochemistry in the Oxford University in Krebs cycle of respiration in living beings is his discovery.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">James Watson and Francis Crick: The two British scientists, Watson and Crick are famous for making the model of the molecular structure of DNA which bears the hereditary factors of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">While carrying out the research for PhD Degree in Cambridge University they discovered the molecular structure of DNA in They won Nobel Prize in the year 1963 for this work.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Watson and Crick first noticed that DNA molecule is structurally a double helix and spiral.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Melvin Calvin (Born in 1911): Calvin, a professor of California University U.S.A. is famous for his research concerning the pathway of carbon assimilation in green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">In co-operation with other scientist Bassham, discovered the biochemical steps of Carbon assimilation known as Calvin Bassham pathway of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He obtained Nobel Prize in 1961.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Taking a few main characteristics from many we shall now compare plants with animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Size and shape: Plants have no definite size and shape while animals have definite size and shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Life Time: Life time is not limited for plants and under suitable conditions they live for a long period.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">But animals live up to a certain length of time under suitable conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Growth: In suitable environment growth of many plants continue for a long period.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Growth in animals takes place up to a certain stage of life and growth ceases after that.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Movement: Most land plants remain fixed in soil with the help of roots as a result they cannot move.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">But some organs of plants may show some movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">A few animals (Such as Sponge) are not capable of movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Most of the animals can move freely.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Nature of Food: Plants cannot take solid food Animals can take solid and liquid type of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Nutrition: Plants are autotrophic, it can prepare food through photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Animals cannot prepare their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">For foods they are to depend on plants and other animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Structure of Cell: A Plant cell has dead cell wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Most of the mature cells have a large vacuole and plastids.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The animal cell has no cell wall and it contains small vacuoles and centrioles.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Reproduction: Plants reproduce by vegetative, asexual and sexual methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Reproduction in animals mainly takes place by sexual method.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Vegetative and asexual reproduction may be found in some animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">There are different systems in animal body.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">But plants have no body system.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The two main branches of Biology are Botany and Zoology.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">In addition to these, there are other branches and sub-branches of Biology.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">You have come across some of those in the preceding parts of this chapter.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Now let us discuss the importance of Biology on the basis of knowledge you have already attained.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Agricultural science has many branches of which Agronomy, Horticulture, Plant breeding, plant pathology, Fishery, Animal husbandry, Poultry, Honeybee culture (Apiculture), Sericulture etc. are important.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">With the application of knowledge of these branches economic development is possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Both plants and animals are the essential components of natural environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It is known to you that plants and animals are interdependent in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Ecology makes us alert about the importance of plants and animals and also the necessity of their presence in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Educated and conscious citizens can play important role in conservation and development of environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Economic development sometimes produces adverse effects on natural environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Environmental degradation and hazards can be encountered through proper application of our knowledge in ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Economic solvency and good environment help social development.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">You know what nature is.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">We live in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We have soil, water, air different plants, animals, insects and worms etc. all around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">All these together constitute nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Millions of years ago nature was not as we see it today.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Nor will it remain the same after millions of years.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">This indicates that nature is always changing.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Nature undergoes changes due to various natural forces such as river-currents, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Different human 11Introduction to Biology activities, such as destruction of forests, construction of dams etc. also bring about changes in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Scientists have been thinking about the origin of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">There are different theories about the origin of the Earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Among these the commonly acceptable theory explains that a part of the Sun or a similar star got detached as a result of the attraction of another star.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The planets including the Earth and then satellites have been created from the detached part of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">According to this theory at the beginning the Earth was in a hot, gaseous state Subsequently the Earth gradually cooled and condensed to form the Earth as it is now.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The core of the Earth is still in an extremely hot liquid and gaseous state.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Nature of the Earth at the primary stage was not at all suitable for inhabitation of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Gradually it became favourable for the existence of living forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Now a question may arise in your mind as to how life originates in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Did plants and animals exist in nature from the very beginning?</sent>
				<sent id ="182">There are different theories regarding the origin of life on the Earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">In the beginning of this chapter we have described an old concept of the origin of life But the theory presented by Oparin, a Russian scientist, about the origin of life is still accepted.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">According to the theory of Oparin nature was quite hot when life was created Different gases such as ammonia (NH3), hydrogen (H2), methane (CH4) hydrogen cyanine (HCN) etc. were present in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">During that period there was heavy rainfall and thunderstorm.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Under such environmental condition amino acids were formed by the interaction of various gases and these amino acids are considered by scientists to be the first molecule of life The first cell or life came into being through incorporation of amino acids.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">It is also believed that life was created first in the primitive aquatic environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">According to the Oparin's theory and established scientific reasons which one of the following is correct if arranged chronologically from origin of life to the recent?</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Kalidas became curious about plants and animals when he was studying at Shingua High School.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Seeing his curiosity the teachers of that school advised him to study biology when he will be grown up.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">According to that advise Kalidash studied on Botany in the University.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The subjects he studied included both pure and applied branches of Biology.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">But afterwards he started working on applied branch and invented many high yielding fruits & crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He is still engaged in this works.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
