<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-biology-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.96</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">241</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2833</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1073</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t33">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The Creator created the world with various types of diversified plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">There are such small plants, which cannot be seen with the naked eyes, again there are also such big plants that can be seen from a long distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">There are many pants.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">whcih do not have flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Again there are such plants which cannot be differentiated into root, stem and leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">There are some plants, which have got no chlorophyll.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">They are not green and cannot prepare their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The number of plants in this diversified plant world is innumerable.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">They are in lacs not in thousands.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">How can we know this great plant world?</sent>
				<sent id ="11">For this there needs a well thought and well organized system.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">This is the system of plant classification.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Classification is a system of arrangement in which one can know the plant kingdom easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Considering the characteristics of plants of the vast plant kingdom, plants having similar characteristics are arranged in groups, i.e., one kind of plant is placed in one group.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Thus plants are successively arranged in groups and sub-groups namely: Division, Class, Order, Family, Genus and Species etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">This systematic arrangement is called classification.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The main objective of classification is to know easily the vast plant kingdom in short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">To acquire knowledge about each group and sub-groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">To focus on the diversity of plant kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">To preserve properly the acquired knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">To present the full knowledge in a nutshell.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">To give a name to every unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">To identify useful plants for the benefit of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">There are certain steps for classification of plant kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">These step are called Taxa and is singular Tax.on.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Using the steps classification is to be done ICBN or International Code of Botanical Nomenclature is the International constitution for naming the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Kingdom: The plant kingdom is composed of the whole number and types of plants present in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The plant kingdom is comprises of about 450000 specIes.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Division: Plant Kingdom is divided into seven Divisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Class: Each division is divided into several classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Order: Each class is divided into several orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Family: Each order is divided into several families.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Genus: Each family is divided into several Genera (PI. of Genus).</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Species: Each genus is divided into several species.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">There are aboqt 250000 fruit producing plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The name of the species should be written in small letters.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Usually several members comprises the higher step, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">several species constitute a genus and several genera constitute a family etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Sometime only one member of a Taxon may constitute a higher Taxon.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">In case of necessity any unit may be splitted to sub-unit for which the term sub should be prefixed against the main unit (Taxa).e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Sub Order, Sub- Family Sub-Genus, Sub-species etc. Name of a plant consisting of two parts - Generic (Genus) Species.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">name (Species) together make a complete name of a plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">For example Artocarpus heterophyllus is the.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">scientific name. of jackfruit, the national fruit of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">In this name there are two words, first one is Artocarpus and the second one is heterophyllus.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">This type of nomenclature, i.e. one name consisting of two words, is called Binomial Name and the method of naming plants by two words is called Binomial System of Nomenclature.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">ICBN formulate the regulations of giving a scientific name to a plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The first name, the generic name, should be started with a capital letter and the second name, the specific name, should be written with a small letter.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Shall be written in Roman letters.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Shall be printed in Italic form i.e. bending at right.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">In case of hand writing names should be underlined.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Swiss scientist Carolus Lidnaeus introduced the Binomial System of Nomenclature.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The main principle of classification is to arrange all plants of a similar character (one type of character), in a group.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Previously the entire living creatures were placed either in Plant or in Animal Kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">But as more and more information regarding characteristics of various living beings, there develops a controversy regarding these two kingdoms theory.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">There established a concept of five kingdoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">According to this concept: The entire Prokaryotic creature is placed in the Kingdom Monera.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">As a result Virus and Bacteria are separated from Plant Kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">There were some controversies regarding some uniCellular Eukaryotic organisms (e.g., Euglena), that whether they are plants or animals?</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Because they simultaneously possess some characters of plant and some characters of animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">To solve this controversy now all the unicellular prokaryotes are placed in the Kingdom of Protista or Protoctista.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">All the unicellular Algae and Protozoa are placed in this Kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Rest of the multicellular eukaryotic organisms are arranged in there different kingdoms depending on their nutrition and food habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">They are, Plantae - Autotrophic, photosynthetic green creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Fungi - Saprophytic, those which intake (absorb) liquid food from organic bodies and Animalia - Rest of the heterotropic creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">As a result of this classification the range of Plant Kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">become reduced, as Algae, Fungi, Bacteria and Viruses are separated from Plant Kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">They are ultra-microscopic and acellular.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">No nucleus and cytoplasm are present in the body; it IS made only by nucleic acid and protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">They can increase their number in a definite living cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Usually they are known as germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The unicellular, prokaryotic microorganism.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">They may be round (Coccus).</sent>
				<sent id ="74">rod shaped or comma In shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">They Increase their number by binary fission.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Normally they do not bear chlorophyll.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">They are unicellular prokaryotic, they bear blue-green pigment and can manufacture their own food (Autotrops).</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Previously they were know as blue green algae and were placed under Algae.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">But due to their prokaryotic nucleus they are placed under Monera.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">They may be unicellular or multicellular and are Eukaryotic.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">They do not have any vascular tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">There are no photosynthetic pigments in their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Fungi may be unicellular or multicellular.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">They are Eukaryotic.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">They do not have any vascular tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">They are either Saprophyte or Parasite.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Plant body of some member of this group may be divided into stem and leaf but bears no root.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">They do not have any vascular tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">They do not produce flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Vegetative body IS divided into root, stem and leaf, There is vascular tissue in their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">They do not produce flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Vegetative body IS divided into root, stem and leaf, There is vascular tissue in their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">They produce flower but do not produce fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">because there is no ovary in the flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">They produce flowers and fruits, Seeds are present in the fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">There IS a vascular tissue in their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The root system is fibrous; venation of leaf is parallel, flower trimerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Seed bears only one cotyledon.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">They produce flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Seeds are in the fruits, have got vascular tissues in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The root system IS taproot system.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Venation of leaf is reticulate.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Flowers are tetramerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Inside the shell there is a double-strand DNA in its head.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">At the upper end of the tail there is a collar, and at the lower end there is a base plate, some spikes and attachment fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">In Viruses there is no nucleus, cell membrane, cytoplasm and other organelles.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Viruses can multiply only inside some other living cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">T2 Phage attacks a Bacterium.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">It keeps the protein shell outside; its DNA enters into the Bacterial cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Later on it (the Viral DNA) makes the Bacterial DNA inactive and make many new Viruses.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Ultimately the Bacterial cell is destroyed and new Viruses came out.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Deadly human diseases like Measles, Pox, Polio, Hydrophobia, Influenza, Harpies, Viral hepatitis etc. are caused by Viruses.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Viruses cause about 300 diseases of various plants and crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Many diseases of domestic animals like - Cow, Goat, Pig, etc. are caused by Viruses.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Vrtises are also responsible for fatal diseases like - AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome), Cancer etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Vaccines of several diseases like -Pox, Polio, and Hydrophobia etc. are also produced from Viruses.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Innumerable Bacteria are surrounding us even inside our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">As a representative of Bacteria, the structure and importance of Closteridium IS described here.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It is rod shaped and unicellular.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">They live in the intestine of human being, other animal or even in soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">They are without photosynthetic pigments.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">They are prokaryotic, i.e. there is no nuclear membrane and nucleolus in their cell .</sent>
				<sent id ="123">There are flagella around the cell wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">They are anaerobic, Gram positive and Spore producing.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Structure : Deadly diseases of human being, like - Phthisis (Tuberculosis), Pneumonia, Typhoid, Cholera Diphtheria, Dysentery, Tetanus, H60ping cough, Meningitis etc are caused by different Bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Besides Bacteria is also responsible for various plant diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Food putrification and food poisoning, water pollution and demannuring of soil etc. are also caused by Bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Some antibiotics are prepared from Bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Vaccines of Cholera, Typhoid, and Phthisis etc are also prepared from Bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Besides Bacteria also perform the important works like; decomposition of rubbish, blending of tea, coffee, tobacco, preparation of butter, curd, cheese from milk, extractivn of Jute fibre, extraction of hairs from skin in tannery, preparation of some B-Vitamins.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">proper management of sewerage lines, and nitrogen fixation etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Thousands of Algal species are found in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">They have diversity in shape, size and structure, but all of them contain different photosynthetic pigments and thus they are autotrophic.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">A short description of Spirogyra, as a. representative of algae, is stated there.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Structure : They are green, un-branched filamentous algae.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Their chloroplasts are band shaped, spirally arranged in the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The name- Spirogyra comes from this spiral chloroplast.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">There are pyrenoids in the chloroplasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The vegetative cell's are elongated and each cell contains a well-organised nucleus and a large vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Their body is slippery and the cell wall is three layered.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Sexual reproduction occurs by the process of conjugation.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">They also reproduce by fragmentations (Filament break up into short pieces and each part grown into a new filament) or by spore formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It is an important source of fish- food.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">It may .also</sent>
				<sent id ="145">be used for human food by special processing.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">It plays a great role in the natural food cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Fungi (Sing: Fungus) are non-green; there are no photosynthetic pigments in their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">They depend on dead organic substances or other living bodies for their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">A short description of Agaricus- a member of fungi is stated here: Structure: Agaricus is a well discussed fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">In BANGLA it is known as BANGER CHAATA (Umbrella of frog).</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The main vegetative body of Agaricus is very thin, thread like and branched.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">In the vegetative cells there are Nuclei (PI. of Nucleus), granular protoplasm, oil drops and vacuoles.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Colourless thread like vegetative body usually lies under the soil surface and spread there.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">At last they interwove to form a special organ and rise above the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">This special organ above the soil is called the Fruit body, which also known as Basidiocarp.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">A mature fruit body or an umbrella like body is known as Mushroom.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It consists of an expanded umbrella like top, called Pileus and a stalk or stem like portion called the Stipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Gills are arranged at the ventral surface of the Pileus from where spores are born.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Reproduction: They reproduce by the formation of Basidiospores.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Importance: Agaricus campestris is well cultivated in home and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">They are marketed as Mushroom and are served as a delicious food in luxurious hotels.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">There are different kinds of valuable food ingredients in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">In the fields there may have poisonous Mushroom too.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">So without being certain one should not eat it.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">There are about 23,000 species of Bryophyta in the world, of which Mosses constitute a major portion of this group.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Mosses grow abundantly in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Characteristics of Bryum moss are described here.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Bryum grows on damp soil, on tree trunk and on the old walls etc. Plant body is divided into Rhizoid (instead of root), Leaf and Stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">There is no vascular tissue in its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Male and female plants are different.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Bi-flagellate sperms, grown in male plants, united with the non-motile egg.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">grown in the female plant, initiate the sporophyte.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Sporophytes are developed on the top of the female plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Spores produced in the capsules germinate to produce algae like filamentous Protonema.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Moss plants develop from the Protonema.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Importance of Moss plants : Mosses help to grow soil on the stony surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">It helps to hold water.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Pit coal is develop from Sphagnum (a Moss).</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Pteridophyta is the first vascular plant (which Possesses vascular tissues).</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The number of species of pteridophyte is about 10,000 species.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">As a representative of Pteridophyta, the description of Pteris is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Pteris is also known as sun fern.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Plant body is divided into root stem and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The stem is Rhizomatous and bears scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Leaves are evergreen and pinnately compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Leaves of fern are known as Frond.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Vemation of young leaf is circinate.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Sporangia (Sing: Sporangium) develop along the margin of the mature leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The swollen portion of a sporangium is called the capsule.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Spores are borne in the capsule, The spores germinate and give rise to green heart-shaped gametophytes- called Prothallus.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Male and female sex organs develop on Prothallus, and by the union of the male and female gametes a new Pteris plant is born.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Pteris are found to grow on old, broken walls and old bricks heap.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Importance of Fern: Many ferns are planted in pots as ornamental plants Some ferns are taken as vegetables and some produce medicines.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Gymnosperm: Gymnosperms produce flowers and seeds but do not bear any fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Once they were well spread around the world but at present their, number is becoming very limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The total number of species of gymnosperms in the whole world is only In Bangladesh only 3 gymnosperms are found to grow naturally in the forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The Cycas plant is sporophyte.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Their body is divided into root, stem and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">They have vascular tissues.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Leaves are compound, look like the leaves of coconut tree, and are arranged spirally as a crOWR on the top of the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Vernation of the young leaves is circinate.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">There are two types of root Primary root or taproot and Coralloid root, which resemble the sea corals.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Female Sporophylls (Megasporophylls) are borne on the top of the female plant and the male Sporophylls (Microsporophylls) are on the top of the male plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The male Sporophylls together form a cone like body, known as Male Cone.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Seeds are developed after pollination and fertilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">New plants develop from the seed.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Importance : Cycas is planted in the garden only for beautification Cycas is found to grow wild in the forests of Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Monocot plants bear one cotyledon in their seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Their roots are fibrous, leaves have parallel venation; flo:vers are trimerous (each floral parts being 3 in number).</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Examples of monocot plants are Paddy, Wheat, Sugarcane, Bamboo, Palm, Coconut, Betel nut and Date-Palm etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">As a representative of Monocot plants, here the characteristics ap.d importance of coconut tree is described briefly with a diagram.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Leaves are pinnately compound and are Arranged as a crown on the top of the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Flowers are in inflorescence, and the inflorescence is covered with a woody Bract.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Flowers are unisexual; number of female flowers is less and is present at the base of the inflorescence stalk.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Number of male flowers is more and is present at the top of female flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">In flowers there are 3sepals, 3petals and 6stamens in male flower and 3united carpel in female flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Fruits are fibrous and one seeded.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Importance of Coconut plants: Green Coconut is a soft drink; the mature coconut is used in preparation of sweetmeat, treated with vegetables in curry.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Again coconut oil also is obtained from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Ropes, mats etc. are made from its coir.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Leaves are used to make roof of hut or cottages.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Brumes are made from the midrib of the leaflets.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Leaves and stem are also used as fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Dicot plants bear two cotyledons in their seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The root system. is Tap Root System; leaves are with reticulate venation, flowers are Tetramerous or Pentamerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">In the world the number of dicotyledonous plant is more.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Examples of Dicot plants are: Mango, Jamboline (JAAM), Litchi, Jackfruit, Shaal, Teak, Mehogoni, Garjan, and Sundari etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">As a representative of Dicot plants, the characteristics and importance of Psidium guava (PEYARA) is described with a.diagram of a small twig of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Psidium plants are sporophyte.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The plant is a small tree with multiple branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Leaves are simple and opposite.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Flowers are stalked, solitary.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">It develops from the axils of the leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Ovary is situated below, the other parts (whorls) of the flower is above the ovary.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Flowers are bisexual and actinomorphic; sepals 5 free, petals 5 free and white in colour; stamens many and free, carpels 5 syncarpous (united).</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The fruits of Psidium are of great importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The plant is cultivated for its fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Ripe fruit is very tasty and the whole of it is edible.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Jam, jelly etc. are prepared from its fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Leaves are used in the treatment of diarrhoea and dysentery.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Water boiled with Psidium leaves is a good curative of gum pain.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
