<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-biology-11</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.78</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">277</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4057</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1110</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t26">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Everything surrounding us forms our environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">There are two types of environment which are recognized, the non-living environment and the living environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The relation between these two environments is very intimate.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The main factors of non-living environment are soil, water and air which provide food and shelter to the living organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The environment influences our life deeply.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">We get all kinds of things from the environment that helps us to stay alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Different types of animals grow in different environments, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">rivers, canals, lakes, ponds etc., which are able to meet the requirements of different aquatic animals but the terrestrial animals cannot live in this type of environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">There is scarcity of water in the desert, so the number of plants growing in the desert is very limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">In this type of environment, plants are rarely seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Aquatic animals and plants are almost rare.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">If we observe, we will notice that both plants and animals living in the saline soil of the Sundarbans are not found in the forests of Sylhet and Chittagong Hill tracts.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">From this, it is understood that the organisms, which grow and live in some particular natural environment have their own individuality.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">In this way, different organisms (plants or animals) together form a biotic community.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Each community consists of plants, animals and micro-organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">They live together in co-operation with one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The climatic condition of a particular geographical region depends upon the topography and configuration of that region.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The animals and plants of a particular region are influenced by the climate of their habitat.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Besides, the animals of that region also have influence upon the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In this way the inseparable relation between the environment and the biotic community of a particular region is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The biotic community and its non- living environment are dependable on each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">You have learnt before that the size and nature of the plants and animals depend on their environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">All the regions of the world are not similar.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Sundari, garan and gewa plants are found in the Sundarbans.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The rivers of this forest have crocodiles, Royal Bengal Tiger and spotted deer are found on this land.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">These animals and plants are not found in the forests of Sylhet and Madhupur.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Why is this so?</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It is very natural to ask such a question.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">All these happen due to the diversity of a particular environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The organisms return all the elements that they have taken from the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">It becomes difficult to survive for the plants and animals if the environment lacks any biological or physical factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The plants absorb nutrition from the fertile soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The animals in turn get their food from the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Through this mutual co-operation the plants and animals grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Due to overpopulation, human habitation and number of industries have increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">For this reason the areas of traditional cultivable land and natural forests have decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Sound, smoke, industrial waste, garbage and bad smell of the factories etc. are polluting the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">As a result the balance of environment is being disrupted.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The different animals of the world are not only dependable on one another, they are also dependable upon the physical factors of the environment e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">soil, water, air and plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">For this reason, living beings cannot be separated from the nonliving.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">There is an intimate relationship between the living community and the non living environment for survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The inter relationship between organisms and their environment is ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">We understand from the discussion above that ecosystem has two components.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">One is biotic community and the other is non living environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It is the non- living environment, which holds the biotic community.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">In any particular environment of a geographical region, the relation and interactions between living and nonliving objects are collectively known as Eco-system.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">We have learnt before that the non living elements influence the living elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Inorganic, organic and physical components are included in non- living components.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Inorganic components: Water and mineral salts are inorganic components of eco-system.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">In addition to these there are other gaseous elements like O2 (oxygen), N2 (nitrogen), CO2 (carbon dioxide) etc., which are necessary for the nutrition of the plants and respiration of organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Organic components: It is the rotten parts of the dead body of plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The dead body of plants and animals after being decomposed forms urea and humus.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">These constitute the organic elements of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Saprophytic fungus and bacteria acting on dead plants and animals form the organic components.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Some of its parts are converted into inorganic salts.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">These inorganic salts are taken as nutrients by the green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Now you have understood, how the organic components maintain link between the biotic and abiotic parts of the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Physical components: The environment is largely dependent on certain physical factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">i. Climate: The climate of a particular environment depends on rainfall, air movement, temperature, humidity, amount of sunlight, snow fall etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Soil factor: Condition of soil in any place influences the animals and plants living there.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">a) Soil composition: The relative amount of sand, clay and silt etc, determines the quality of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The quality of the soil has a special influence over the animals and plants of that particular area.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">b) Humus and Mineral salt: The rotten manure, produced from the dead plants and animals is the humus.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">In humus there is a large amount of mineral salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Plants absorb this mineral salt with the help of their root hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">c) Soil water condition: The life of animals and plants also depend on the quantity of the water, the level of underground water, drainage of excess water and also on the porosity of soil. 1) Topographic factor: The topographic factor of a particular region influences the animals and plants living there.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Weather, soil factor and topographic factor are the inorganic components of eco-system.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The main source of energy is the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The green plants with the help of chloroplast, inverts the solar energy into organic component and stores it in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">indirectly this solar energy is flowing within the living community.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Thus the life process and energy flow on this earth is maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">B. Living components: Every organism is a part of the eco-system.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">In eco- stem the non-living and living components are interdependent.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Absence of one affects the other in maintaining their natural activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The habits of plants influence the animals characters of eco-system.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Every living being takes food for its physical growth, reproduction and existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Every organisms gets energy from food.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">We have learnt before that the source of energy flowing in biotic community is the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Food chain: We know that it is the green plants which manufacture their own food by using the solar energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">As the green plants can prepare their own food, they are autotrophic.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Green plants in the presence of sun light react with the inorganic substances (CO2 and water) and make their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The plant's body preserves the solar energy in the form of potential energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Of the food manufactured by the plants, only small portion is used for its own requirement while the major portion is stored in its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The herbivorous animals eat this stored food and the carnivorous animals eat these herbivorous animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">They are consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The decomposers (bacteria, fungus) use plants, herbivorous, carnivorous animals etc. as food and transforms those into humus.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">From inorganic components of soil the green plants again produce their food with the help of solar energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">It is now clearly understood that starting with plants, through various types of animals and decomposers, step by step, the food substances are transferred from one to another and finally return to the green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">This cyclic transfer of food and the relation of food and its consumer are known as the food chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">From the examples given above, we can understand that how the food material forms consumers of different levels of the food chain based on producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In one food chain there may be one producer and three to four consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Generally the final consumer is not eaten by any other animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">His death occurs due to disease, normal or abnormal causes.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">In an eco-system there maybe different types of food chains.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Usually two types of food chain are found in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Grazing food chain or Predator food chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Saprophytic food chain or Detritus food chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Grazing or Predator food chain: The food chain starts from the green plants, goes to grazing herbivores and gradually moves from the smaller carnivores to the bigger.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It is known as predator grazing food chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">deer eats grass, tiger eats the deer (this is a predator grazing food chain).</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Saprophytic or Detritus food chain: Different micro-organisms or fungus splits up dead body of plants and animals into organic components.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The splitting organisms are decomposers.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The splited organic compounds are taken as food by some animals and then the decomposers are converted into foods of other animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Such as, Dead organism-Decomposer-Amoeba -Hydra Zooplankton-Fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Food web: Previously we came to know that any food chain cannot remain scattered in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">One food chain is linked with the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">When in a given eco-system, more than one food chain exists, the food chain becomes very complex and in this case the members of different types of food chain become interrelated.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The well organized interrelated arrangement of more than one food chains formed by various species together is known as the food web.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Producer: Solar energy is the main source of energy in the ecosystem.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">the green plants, in presence of sunlight react with carbon dioxide and water and produce carbohydrate and oxygen as excess.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">In this way, the solar energy stored in chemical compounds or food.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Those who accomplish this significant function are known as producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Green plants are the main producers in eco- system.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Producers are autotrophic.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The producers do not depend upon other organisms for nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Consumers: The living organisms which cannot manufacture their own food using the solar energy like the green plants and get their nutrition by eating other organisms are known as consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Most of the consumers of the living world are animals, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">mynas eat the insects, lion eats the deer, tiger eats men etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">So Myna, lion and tiger are consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">As the consumer depends upon other living organisms for food or nutrition they are called heterotrophic.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">There are three levels of consumer's namely Primary consumer, Secondary consumer_ and Tertiary consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Primary consumer: Herbivores or Green plant eating animals are known as Primary consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">various types of insects, goats, cows etc dircetly denends on plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The secondary consumer : The animals which live on primary consumers are known as secondary consumers, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">frogs eat insects and tiger, jackal etc. eat herbivores animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Tertiary or highest consumer: Those who live on secondary consumer, are tertiary or highest consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">vulture, falcon, crocodiles.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">sharks etc are, tertiary consumers because they live on secondary consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">There are many animals which live on food of more than one level e.g. when the peacocks live on plants, they are primary consumers and when they eat small insects, they are tertiary consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">These sorts of animals are known as omnivorous animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Man also consumes foods of different levels of the food chain to stay alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Decomposer: In an eco-system there is another type of heterotrophic organism which is collectively known as decomposers.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This includes mainly the bacteria and fungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">From the body of the decomposers enzymes are secreted and that decomposes the dead body of the plants and animals to form simple chemical compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">These chemical compounds are absorbed by the bacteria and fungi as nutrients.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Besides this, the decomposers perform an important function which is to transform organic substances into inorganic ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">These inorganic substances are used by green plants for food preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">herbivores are eaten by the carnivorous animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The decomposers transform the plants, herbivorous and carnivorous animals into inorganic substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Using the inorganic, substance the green plants can again manufacture food with the help of solar energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">In an eco-system the transfer or flow of energy and nutrient from one trophic level to other is in succession.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">In each trophic level of food chain energy available decreases step by step, decomposers rot the dead body of the Nutrient flow in Eco-system: It is observed that plants accept inorganic substances and manufactures food by respiration the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">A small portion of the food produced by the plants is used by them and the rest is reserved in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The herbivorous animals eat this and organisms and inorganic nutrients are stored in nutrient storage of environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The green plants again find inorganic nutrients from the storage environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The cyclic flow of nutrients is known as nutrient flow.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Food chain and nutrient flow are the important characters of ecosystem.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Energy flow in Ecosystem: Green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">are the primary producers, which produce energy by using solar energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Green plants hold solar energy as chemical energy from where it flows as energy or chemical compounds to the herbivorous animals and from the herbivorous animals to carnivorous animal Energy is spent in every step on the way to flow from the producer to the carnivorous animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Almost all the energy is spent at the time of transfer of energy to the decomposers- from producers, herbivorous and carnivorous animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">This causes no energy to be transferred at the time of nutrient flow to inorganic nutrient storage.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Inorganic nutrient materials are again transferred to producers from the nutrient storage.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">From this, it is understood that in eco- system the nutrient flows in a cyclic order with the eco-system.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The energy flow is however, one way and not cyclic.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Decomposition and Transformation of Energy: We know that among the physiological processes of organisms, excretion is one of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The animal excrete the nitrogenous waste products from the body through excretion.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">In this process some energy is spent.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Besides this, the living organisms lose energy due to other physiological process.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Living organisms come to an end through death and lose energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">This energy is called lost energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The decomposers get necessary energy from the dead bodies and excretory products of different trophic level.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In this way energy is transferred and the food chain remains effective.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Some examples of food chains are given below with which a human being is related in some way and they are the last level of the chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It is seen that some of these food chains are very small and others are very large.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Living organisms spend a lot of energy in respiration and other biological functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">If the food chain is short, less energy is spent and if it is long then more energy is spent.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">From this rule it is understood that more the energy is transferred from producers to higher levels less the energy remains.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">According to the environment the ecosystem is divided into two parts, one Terrestrial Eco-system and the other one is Aquatic Eco-systems.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The Environment of a place depends on the topography, weather and climate of that place.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The animals or plants of a particular region are dependant on some natural characteristics such as nature of soil, rivers, deserts, hills, mountains, climate etc. Terrestrial Ecosystem: There are different types of terrestrial eco-system in different parts of the earth surface due to difference of rainfall, temperature, wind flow etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">There are many differences in ecology of agricultural land, grassland, desert and forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Instead there are differences in ecology of mountain, hill, plain land, cold area, temperate area and tropical area.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">It is not possible to describe all types of eco-system in this chapter, so two of our known eco-systems are described here briefly.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">A. Eco-system of paddy field: Due to cultivation, manure and irrigation the fertility of the land is increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Paddy is the main plant of paddy field.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Besides this there grow grass and many other weeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">They are the producers of the eco- system.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Different types of insects infect the paddy.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">They are the primary consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Toad and different birds lives on the insect, snake lives on toad, the predator birds lives on small birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">When they die the saprophytic insect (ant, larvae of flies) and bird (crow, vulture) eat them.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Besides these different types of bacteria and virus decomposes the dead bodies of plants and animals into organic compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">In this way the eco-system of paddy field is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Their analysis is found in the following list.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">B. Ecosystem of forest: The forest eco-system of Bangladesh is more or less same in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">But the organisms of different food chains are different in different places.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Pond ecosystem: The mutual relation between the living organisms and non- living things of a particular area is known as ecosystem.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">In every ecosystem, every organism has a definite habitat and a definite life pattern.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">It is the main characteristics of an ecosystem.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">A pond is a self-sufficient and an ideal example of ecosystem.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">In a pond, the intimate relation between the inhabiting living and non-living components is well understood.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The non-living objects are various types of organic and inorganic substances such as water, sun rays, CO2, oxygen, calcium, phosphorus, humic acid etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The living components are producers, primary consumers, secondary consumers, tertiary consumers and various types of decomposers.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Producers: Various types of photosynthetic algae and shallow water plants living in the pond are the producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The floating organisms are called plankton.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The minute plants of plankton type are known as phytoplankton.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Green aquatic algae and other aquatic plants can live by producing food by the process of the photosynthesis, so they are called producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Primary consumers: These are various types of floating minute insects, larvae of mosquito and other microscopic animals like zooplankton etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Floating minute animals are called zooplankton.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">These consumers cannot manufacture their own food and they live on by eating the producers directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Secondary consumers: Small fishes, some aquatic insects, prawns, frog etc. are secondary consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">They can neither manufacture their own food nor accept the producers as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">They live on by eating the primary consumers: Tertiary consumers: Small fishes, prawn and all other animal that feeds, upon the secondary consumers are known as tertiary consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Large fishes like shoal, boal, vetki, stork and heron are the tertiary or highest consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Decomposer: In pond water, various types of fungi and bacteria live as, saprophytes which are- known as decomposer.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">These decomposers can live by floating on water or live at the bottom clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">They attack living or dead consumers and help to rot.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">As a result, organic and inorganic chemical substances usable by the producers are fornmed again.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The producer community of the pond use these decomposed elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The flow chart gives an idea about the components of pond ecosystem.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">B. River Ecosystem: water body often the rivers may have strong currents.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">For this reason, there is a noticeable difference between the environment and the living communities of rivers with those of the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">In river there are different types of algae fishes like Hilsha, Pungas, Chital, Boal etc. live in the rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The bodies of.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">these fishes are laterally compressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">For this feature of their body shape they are capable of moving easily in strong current.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Near the bank of the river where the current is less, living communities like those of the ponds grow there.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">In the ecosystem of rivers the food chain is short e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Algae, Hilsa, Boal.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Marine Ecosystem: The water of the sea is saline.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">In the saline water the sea there lives numerous phytoplanktons and zooplanktons.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Coral, Prawn Starfish, Snail, various types of small and large fishes, tortoise, dolphin, shark.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">whale etc. live in the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Phytoplankton and sea algae are the only producer in marine environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Prawn, bivalve, zooplankton, minute pelagic animals and small fishes are the primary consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Large fishes, tortoises, whales etc. are the secondary ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The sharks and various predatory fishes the tertiary ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Generally the small fishes are herbivorous.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The starfish, prawns, snails are detritus eating animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The food chain of whale is also short like that of hilsa such as plankton, whale, plankton, small bivalve's and whale.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Ecosystem is a self-sufficient unit: Every ecosystem is more or less a self- controlled unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">In nature the number of a particular living being cannot increase too much.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">All organisms are interrelated with each other in the form of food and consumers chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Any one of these systems cannot be completely eliminated easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The proportionate number of different level of biotic communities always remains more or less unchanged.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">In spite of various changes in the environments, the natural balance is maintained for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">By some reason, if the number of a particular animal of a place increases, the number of other living beings of that ecosystem will change in such a manner that the balance of the number of other living beings is maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">If it is discussed with example, it will be easy to understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Suppose in a forest, tiger, deer, cows, pigs etc. live.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Deer and pig are the foods of tigers.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">If the number of deer and pigs increase, the tiger will have enormous quantity of food and consequently the tiger Production will increase and if the number of tiger's increases, large number of deer and pigs will be killed, as a result, the number of deer and pigs will be decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">This will cause a dirth of food for tigers and the number of tigers will be decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">On the other hand, if the number of tiger decreases the number of deer and pigs will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">In this way, through decrease and increase of different animal population of the ecosystem of an area is automatically controlled.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The responsibility of man in maintaining balance of an environment: Starting from the producer up to the highest consumer there is a proportion of number of different tropical level in the ecosystem.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Here the different processes of ecosystem are maintained nicely.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">It is called environmental balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The relation between the inorganic and organic elements is very intimate in an ecosystem and the elements of an ecosystem maintain balance with each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">But different types of natural disasters, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">earthquake, tidal bore, draught etc. may destroy the balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Besides these, man misuse natural resources for their own comforts.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">This affects the natural balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">For this reason there is a gulf of difference between the environment of ancient time and the present time.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">244Natural Diversity of Bangladesh-Distribution of Plants and Animals Human beings are now facing two problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The first one is the excessive population increase and food crisis.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The second problem is the conservation of natural environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Conservation of nature is one of the main steps to maintain the balance of the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">In this way the components of environment can be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Climate, Solar energy, minerals, soil, plants, wildlife etc. are natural resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Naturally very little of these resources decrease or being misused and nature herself always balance these.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">But soil, fresh water, forest, wildlife etc. are nature's perishable resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Due to continuous use the quantity of these resources are becoming less.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The goal of conservation is not to stop the use of these perishable resources and that is quite impossible.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">On the basis of knowledge from ecology, fresh water, soil, forest and wildlife can be conserved by definite plans.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">The main object of conservation is to use the natural resources by well planning to stop all types of misuse and dispotic use and in probable case revive the past condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Now a days environment is taken into consideration extensively more than it was before.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Conservation and long time management of the components of environment like soil, water, air, plants and animals etc. has now become the most important matter to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Now a days man has come to realise that it is better to try to adjust with nature than to conquer it.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Soil is the upper layer of the earth crust which is soft and consisting of a mixture of various organic and inorganic substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">We live on the surface of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">We take different necessary elements from the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">The remains of plants and animals return to the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Thus we can utilise repeatedly the different ingredients of the soil by rotation.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">So it can be said that our relation with the soil is very close.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">If soil is polluted it will have deadly effect on our environment.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
