<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-biology-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.933</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">216</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2847</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">918</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t32">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">There is only one cell in the body of the animals of the phylum Protozoa.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Animals of the Phylum Porifera are simplest multi-cellular animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Their cells do not form actual tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Though tissues, organs and systems are not formed in members of the phylum Cnidaria (previously known as Coelenterata), their body cells are, however, arranged in two layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In the animals from phylum Platyhelminthes to Chordata, tissues, organs and organ systems are seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Members of those phyla are three layered.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">From there three embryonic cell layers (namely ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm), tissues, organs and systems are formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Tissue: In the body of multi-cellular animals some cells remain together and performa particular function.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">These cells are either formed from the ectoderm, mesoderm or endoderm of the embryo and remain close together.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Inter-cellular materials or matrix are present between these cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">These cells may be similar or of different types.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Arising from the embryonic cell layer when certain types of cells when remain in a particular place of the animals body and collectively perform a common function.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">those cells and the inter-cellular materials or matrix secreted by them are collectively called the Tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">That is to say, cells of a particular tissue are similar in its, origin, function and structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The subject in which the different types of tissue are discussed is called Histology.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">A. Tissue: Originating from a same place when more than one cell with similar structure and function performs a common function, then those groups of cells are called Tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">For example, blood is a kind of fluid connective tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">In the liquid matrix or plasma of blood there are red corpuscles, white corpuscles and platelets.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Blood is developed from the mesoderm of the embryo.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">B. Cell: Cell is the structural and functional unit of tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">For example, Red blood corpuscles (Erythrocytes), White blood corpuscles (Leucocytes) and Platelets (Thrombocytes) are various types of blood cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Of these the red courpuscles transport oxygen and carb.on</sent>
				<sent id ="23">dioxide, white corpuscles take part in the defense of the body and the platelets take part in blood clotting at the site of injury and stop unwanted blood loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Blood cells and the plasma together form the blood tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Blood generally takes part in the internal transportation of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">On the basis of number of cells, characteristic and the presence or absence of the intercellular materials or matrix secreted by cells, the tissue is mainly divided into four categories.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Structural Characteristics, Function and Location of Epithelial Tissue: Structural Characterisics :</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The cells of the epithelial tissue lie closely or side by side on a basement membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">There is no matrix in this tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Squamous Epithelial Tissue: Cells of this tissue are flat like scales;</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Example: Wall of the Bowman's capsule of Kindey.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Example: Collecting tubules of the kidney.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Function: Mainly absorption and covering.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Example: On the internal wall of intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Function: Mainly secretion, protection and absorption.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">On the number of cell layers arranged on basement membrane, epithelial tissue is of three types.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Simple Epithelial Tissue: On basement membrane the cells are arranged in a single layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Stratified Epithelial Tissue: Cells are arranged on the basement membrane in more than one layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Example: Integument of vertebrate animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Pseudo stratified Epithelial Tissue: .Cells, of this tissue are arranged in a single layer on basement membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The cells are not of the same height.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">So this tissue appears to be stratified tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Besides the cells of epithelial tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">are transformed variously for different functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Ciliated Epithelial Tissue: Found in the wall of the respiratory tube of vertebrate animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Flagellated Epithelial Tissue: Found in the endoderm of Hydra.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Pseudopodia Epithelial Tissue: Found in pseudopodial cells in the endoderms of Hydra and in the intestine of vertebrate animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Glandular Epithelial Tissue: This is a kind of epithelial tissue transformed into gland in the stomach and intestine of vertebrate animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Germinal Epithelial Tissue: This, is a kind of transformed epithelial tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">From this tissue sperms and ovum are formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">This tissue form, the external and internal- covering of any organ or tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">After transformation this tissue takes part in , protection; secretion, absorption, diffusion, transportation etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">So, it can be said that epithelial tissue being transformed into glandular tissue and germinal tissue perform various important functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Structural Characteristics, Functions and Location of Connective Tissue .</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Structural Characteristics: The.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">amount of matrix is more in connective tissue but the number of cells is comparatively less.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Matrix may be jelly like, soft or hard and fragile.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Functions: Connective tissue connects muscle with muscle and bone with bone.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Connective tissue may transform into skeletal tissue, fibrous tissue and.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">fluid connective tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">On the basis of structure and function connective tissue is mainly of three types.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">A. Films Connective Tissue: This type of connective tissue lies below the body-integument and sparsely in muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">In their matrix numerous fibres are present.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Skeletal Tissue: Internal structural building tissue of the body is called the skeletal tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">This tissue forms the internal structure of the body, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It gives the body definite shape and firmness.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">It helps in organ movement and locomotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">IIt protects the soft and sensitive organs of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">It produces various types of blood corpuscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">It forms the surface for the attachment of voluntary muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Depending on the formation, skeletat tissue is of two types.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Cartilage: Cartilage is a kind of flexible skeletal tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Their matrixes are solid but they are soft and their cells have large spaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Cartilage is suited at the two ends of the humerus, femur, and pinna of the ear and nose of the mammals.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Bone: Bone is hard, fragile and unflexible skeletal connective tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Bones become rigid due to deposition of lime in their matrix.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Some bones are solid.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">For an example, long bones of hind limb of vertebrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Parts of long bones near-the bone cavities are sponge like.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Structural Characteristics: Matrix of this tissue is liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">In he matrix there are various types of organic materials in the form of colloid.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Function: The main function of vascular tissue is to maintain circulation in the interior of the body and resistance from disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This tissue is of two types: Blood and Lymph.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Blood: Blood is a type of alkaline, stightly saline, red coloured, liquid connective tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Flowing through the artery, veill and capillaries, blood takes part in internal circulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Blood, blood vessels and heart together form circulatory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Plasma: It is the liquid part of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">It is straw coloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">It contains (91-92) % water and (8-9) % organic and inorganic materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The organic substances include various types of blood protein and waste materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The inorganic part contains different minerals like sodium, potassium, iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">calcium, magnesium etc. ii.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Blood Cell or Blood Corpuscles: Blood corpuscles form the major components of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Blood cells are of three types.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">These are: Red Blood Corpuscle or Erythrocyte: These blood corpuscles contain haemoglobin.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Due to haemoglobin colour of blood is red.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">the red blood corpuscles of the amphibians are biconvex, nucleated and oval.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">On the contrary, the red corpuscles of the blood of mammals are biconvex, non nucleated and round.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Haemoglobin is combined with oxygen forms a unstable compound oxyhaemoglobin.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It breaks down and releases oxygen in places where it is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Functions: To, carry oxygen and some carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">White Blood Corpuscle or Leucocyte: These generally lack definite shape and are nucleated.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Cytoplasm of white corpuscles are either granular or non granular.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Functions: To destroy germs and take part in self defense.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Thrombocyte or Platelets: These are present in the blood of vertebrate animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">These are usually nucleated and spindle shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Nucleus is absent in the Thrombocytes of mammals.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The thrombocyte of mammal is also called platelet.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Thrombocytes take part in blood coagulation or blood clotting.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Lymph:- The fluid materials stored in the spaces between different tissues are collected by some small vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">These small vessels are united together to form larger vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The system formed by these vessels known as lymphatic system.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">These vessels are lymph vessels and the fluids are lymph.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The large lymph vessels enter the vain in the shoulder region of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">There are some cells in the lymph known as lymphocyte.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Lymph is a kind of slightly alkaline, transparent -and yellow coloured fluid.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The particular type of contracting and expanding tissue originates from embryonic, mesoderm is called Muscular tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Structural Characteristics: Matrix is nearly absent in muscular tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The muscle cells are elongated and fibre-like.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The fibres are spindle shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The fibres are known as myofibril.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The cytoplasm of muscle cell may have one or more nuclei.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The cell membrane of the muscle cell is known as sarcolemma.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The myofibrils with transverse striation are known as striated muscle and without striation are known as smooth muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Function: Muscle cells through contraction or expansion take part in organ movement, locomotion and internal circulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">On the basis of location, structure and functions, muscle tissue is of three types.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Voluntary or Striated Muscle: This Type of muscular tissue can be contracted or expanded at the will of the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The cells of the voluntary muscle tissue are tubular, not branched and provided with transverse striations.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">These have generally more than one nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This muscle can contract or expand quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">This muscle is also, called striated or skeletal muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Location: Voluntary muscles remain attached with the skeletal system as muscles of-hand, and feet of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Function: To control the movement and mobilization of different organs by voluntary movement of various bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Structural Characteristics: The contraction and expansion of this muscle tissue is not at all of the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">This muscle tissue is spindle shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Transverse striations are not present here.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">That is why this muscle is called smooth muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Location: Involuntary muscles are found on the walls of blood vessels, alimentary canal etc. of the vertebrate animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Function: Involuntary muscles mainly take part in the movement of internal organs, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">peristalsis. of intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Structural Characteristics: The special type of involuntary muscle that forms the heart of vertebrate animals is called the cardiac muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The cells of this mucle tissue are tubular (very similar to those of voluntary muscle), branched and provided with transverse striations.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Between the cells of this tissue intercalated disc are present.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The contraction and relaxation of this tissue is not dependent on the will of the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">That is, the structure of heart muscles is ,like that of voluntary muscle and the function is like that of involuntary muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The cells of cardiac muscle, attached by branch joined together by branch.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The contraction and expansion of all cardiac muscles take part combindly.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Function: Through rhythmic contraction and relaxation, the cardiac muscles control the circulation of blood within the body from a particular stage of the embryonic condition until death.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Structural Characteristics: The particular type of tissue, which forms the nervous system, is called nerve tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Receiving stimulus from the environment, the nerve tissue transmits it within the body and accordingly appropriate responses are created.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The special type of cell which forms the nerve tissue is called nerve cell or neuron So a neuron is the structural and functional unit of nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">It is ectodermal in origin.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Neuron or nerve cells can receive various types of external and internal stimuli or nerve-sensation and can transmit those inside the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Cell body: The cell body is generally polygonal and nucleated.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The cytoplasm of the cell contains mitochondria, golgibody, ribosome, endoplasmic reticulum etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">But as there is no active centriole in the cytoplasm of neuron, the neuron cannot divide.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Function: Originating from the cell body, two or more branches transmit stimuli or nerve impulse to the neuron's cell body.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Generally they are one or several in numbers and present opposite to the axon.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Axon : From the neuron's cell body a long fibre branch carries nerve impulse towards dendrite of the next neuron.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">A neuron has only one axon.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Between the with the dendrite of the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">It is called synapse.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Through the synapse stimuli of a nerve is transmitted from one neuron to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Location : Nerve tissues are located within the nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">There are innumerable neurons is the nerve tissue of any animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">To receive stimuli and create proper sensation.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">To store memory in higher animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">To control the works of different organs of the body and coordinate their activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Organs : An organ is a part of animal body formed by the combination of one or more than one type of tissues performing a particular function is called an organ.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">That is to say, in any organ there may be one or more than one type of tissues and the organ can perform a particular work.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The branch of biology where organs are discussed is called anatomy.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Necessary Organs of Human Body : According to location there are two typesof organs in human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The branch of Biology, where the morphology of external organs like eye, ear, nose, hand, foot, head etc. are discussed, is called Morphology.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Again, the branch of Biology where the internal organs of the organism are discussed in detail is called Internal Anatomy.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Eye, ear, nose, hand, foot, head etc. are external organs and stomach, duodenum, ileum, rectum, heart, liver, pancreas, spleen, lung, kidney, testis, ovary etc. are internal organs of human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Systems: For performing various physiological f~nctions, such.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">as digestion, respiration, excretion, reproduction etc. several organs together form the organ systems in animal body.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Digestive System: This system ,is associated with ingestion, digestion, absorption of food and removal of undigested residues.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Digestive Canal: This canal consists of mouth opening, mouth cavity, pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, duodenum, ileum, rectum and anus.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Digestive Glands: In man salivary glands, liver and Panereas work.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">as digestive glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Respiratory System: This system with the help of oxygen taken from the environment produces energy by the oxidation of food present in the body cells to help the body to do every days work.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">In man the respiratory system .consists of nasal aperture, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchus, bronchiole and a pair of lungs made of alveoli.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Nervous System: The function of this system is to receive external and internal stimuli of the body and to create appropriate sensation.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Nerve system is formed of brain spinal cord and cranial nerves and spinal nerves.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Besides, the nerve system has also a part named Autonomous Nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">This part of the nerve system controls the involuntary works of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Excretory System: Due to various physiological metabolic activities some waste materials are produced within the body as by products.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">These materials are generally toxic to the body, so they need to be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The process of removing unnecessary waste materials from the body is called excretion.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The system by which the excretion is performed is called excretory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The excretory system of human beings consists of a pair of kidney, a pair of ureter, one urinary bladder and one urethra.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Reproductive System: Through this system an animal produces one or more offsprings of its type to maintain the contiriuation of the species.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">On the maturity, the child becomes capable to reproduce.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Man is unisexual.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Both males and females have individual reproductive system of their own.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Besides, males have a few more important systems, such as: .</sent>
				<sent id ="198">a. Integumentary System: The membrane covering the body from outside is called integument or skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">This system covers the body, protects from external injury and control the movement of various material from outside and inside the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Endocrine System: There are few endocrine glands within the body of the human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Secretions of these glands are known as hormone.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">There are no ducts for transportation of hormone.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Blood carries the hormone from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The endocrine system is formed with the endocrine glands like Pituitary, Thyroid, Parathyroid, Islets of Langerhans of Panqreas, and Suprarenal etc. Co-ordination between Organs and Systems to keep the body fit: The body of man and other higher animals is formed in coordination with some systems.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">A particular system is again formed of some related organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Each of these organs has particular structure and functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">There exists coordination among the functions of the organs of a system.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Each system works separately and each has its own specific functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">For example, the function of the digestive system is mainly intake of food, dig~stion of food, absorption of digested food, and temporary storage and excretion of undigested food.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Of this system the digestive glands named salivary glands; liver and pancreas take part in digestion by secreting various digestive enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">In any living beings, all these systems are interrelated.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">So, a system works properly only when each of the component organ of that particular system function properly and systematically.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Again, through the coordinated work of different systems, living beings do their regular activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">In case of all higher animals, nervous system and endocrine system together control and conduct the works of all organs, i.e. all systems to keep the body healthy and fit.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The work of the nervou5 system is performed directly and generally quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">On the other hand~ the functioning of the hormones secreted by the endocrine glands or ductless glands are comparatively slow.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
