<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-biology-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.142</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">590</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">8721</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2031</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t35">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Among all the nutrients the plants from atmosphere absorb only Carbon and Oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Other elements are absorbed from soil by root.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">These elements are present in the soil as different salts, but plant cannot intake them directly They absorb as different ions.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Actions of different elements are very acute in plant nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">For these elements are termed as essential elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Formation of chlorophyll is hampered for the deficiency of Nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">If chlorophyll is not formed manufacturing of food is hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">If manufacture of food is seized it hampered the process of respiration and causes less production of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Magnesium is one of the elements of chlorophyll.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">As a result for deficiency of it will seize the formation of chlorophyll and manufacture of food by photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Potassium acts as a catalyst in many biochemical reactions in plants, for this it is necessary in plant nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The development of plant by cell division is also control by potassium.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">So without it plant nutrition is not at all possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">We use Nitrogen (Urea), Potash (Murrate of Potash), Phosphorus (Triple supper Phosphate) ect.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">for crops as it play valuable role in nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Plants show special symptoms in case of deficiency of any element.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">These symptoms are called Deficiency Symptoms or deficiency disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">We can ascertain the deficiency of any element by observing these symptoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Formation of chlorophyll hampers for its shortage, as a result leaves become yellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Young leaves become yellow at last.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">This process of becoming yellow is called Chlorosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">It reduces the development and rate of cell division, so reduces the growth of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Deficiency of Phosphorus causes the leaf to tern violet.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Necrotic area develop on the leaf, reduces the growth of root, may cause root, leaf or flower fall.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Leaf apex and margin becomes yellow and forms necrotic areas for the shortage of Potassium.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Due to the deficiency of Iron at first the young leaves become fade in colour, the middle of the narrow veins become fade first.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Some times the whole leaf become discolour.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Older leaves become yellow first.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Chlorosis develops at the intervenial spaces Necrotic area .</sent>
				<sent id ="30">develops on the leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Deficiency of Boron reduces the growth of root.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Top of the shoot dies and hamper the production of flower bud.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">We can do this experiment with a piece of newspaper too.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Imbibition is also a process of water absorption.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Absorption of water by dry, semi-dry colloidal substances called Imbibition.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">More easily it can be said that the process of absorption of water by plant cell wall, protoplasm etc. is called imbibition.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The amount of water absorbed by dry seeds during germination is done by imbibition.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The substances, which absorb water, are called Hydrophilic (water loving) substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Hydrophilic substances contracted for shortages of water, again when it gets water become swollen by absorbing it.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">It is seen that in winter the wooden doors and windows make gaps for contraction and in the rainy season they swells up by absorbing water and it become harder to open the doors and windows.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">It is a result of imbibition.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">If a spoon of sugar dissolves in a glass of water, the sugar molecules spread throughout the whole glass of water; as a result the whole water becomes equally a sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">If a spoon of salt is dissolved in a glass of water, it is seen that whole water becomes equally salted.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Let us see what happens if some crystals of Potassium permanganate (KMn04) is dropped into a glass of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">After some times it will be seen that the whole water in the glass becomes violet.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Dropping a drop of ink in the glass may do this experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Actually in a crystal of sugar, salt or potassium permanganate there are any molecules compactly combined together.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">When the crystal is dropped in water the water molecules attract its molecules very strongly.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">As a result the crystal is completely dissolved in water and its molecules are spread throughout the water evenly.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The molecules of sugar, salt or potassium permanganate distributed throughout the water by the process diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The potential ability of a substance to move from a region of high concentration to a region of low concentration at a constant, temperature end atmospheric pressure is called diffusion pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The diffusion pressure of gas is a gas balloon is higher than the diffusion pressure of its surrounding air.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">So when the balloon bursts, the gas inside the balloon spread throughout the surrounding air due to its higher diffusion pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Diffusion of a substance depends on temperature, atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Concentration of molecules of that substance and concentration of the medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Temperature: with the increase of temperature diffusion usually increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Concentration of the substrate: The rate of diffusion will be higher if the concentration of molecules of the substrate is higher; if the concentration is less, rate of diffusion will be less.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Concentration of the medium: If the concentration of the medium, like water or air, is more, the rate of diffusion will be less; and if the concentration is less the rate of diffusion will be high.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Atmospheric pressure: Increase of atmospheric pressure will reduce the rate of diffusion and decrease of atmospheric pressure will increase the rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Usually temperature and pressure at a certain place remain same at a certain time, in that case the concentration of the substance and the concentration of the medium become the factors to control diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">If the medium and the diffusion substance are same (as in the balloon and the surrounding air) then diffusion will continue till the concentration of the two become same.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">If two solutions (mixture) of different concentrations is separated by a membrane then the rate of diffusion between two solutions will depend on the nature of the membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Usually we find three types of membrane in plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">) Permeable Membrane: Molecules of both solute and solvent can be diffused through this membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Cell wall, made of cellulose, is of this type.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">) Selectively permeable (Semi permeable) membrane: Only the solvent molecules can diffuse through this membrane, not the solute molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Cell membrane is a semi permeable membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">) Impermeable membrane: molecules of both solute and solvent are impermeable (can not pass through= can not diffuse) through this membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Cell wall coated with cutine or suberine is impermeable membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Diffusion plays a great role in plant life.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">CO2 - necessary compound for photosynthesis is absorbed from air (atmosphere) by diffusion process.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The process happens in the spongy parenchyma of leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Oxygen - necessary for respiration, is also intakes from air by diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Movement of water and mineral salts in the plant body takes place by diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Diffusion also responsible for loss of water from the aerial shoot of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">If a raisin is kept in a cup of water for some times it will be shown that the raisin will absorb water and become full and flashed.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The outer covering of the raisin is a semi permeable membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Out side this membrane there is water in the cup, and inside the membrane there is sweet juice of raisin.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The amount of water in the cup is more (actually whole amount is water) but that inside the raisin is very little.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">In this condition water from the cup enter into the concentrated region inside through the semi permeable membrane of raisin.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">As a result the raisin swollen and filled with juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">It is happened by a special process known as Osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Osimosis may be defined as -a process by which solvent (water) diffuse from an area of high concentration through a semi permeable membrane to a area of low concentration solution is termed as Osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The process continues till the concentration of two solutions become same.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Osmosis is a special type of diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">We know solution is a mixture of solute and solvent, for example mixture of sugar and water is a solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Here water is the solvent and sugar is the solute and the mixture is the solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">In osmosis diffusion of solute never takes place, only solvent diffuses that is in case of plants only water diffuses.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">* Endosmosis: osmosis in which solvent (water) from outside enter inside the cell, is called endosmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Concentration of cell sap is more than the concentration of the outer solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Put some raisins in water Water will enter inside the fruits (raisin) and the raisin will swell up like a grape being filled with juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">* Exosmosis: Osmosis in which water (solvent) comes out from inside the cell is called exosmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Exosmosis takes place when the concentration of external solution is more than the concentration of cell sap.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Put some grape in salt solution and observe it.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Water will come out from the grape and it will contract.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">* There should have two solutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">One concentrated and other dilute.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">A semi permeable membrane should separate the two solutions of different concentration.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">* The two solutions must be of same solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">* Temperature and atmospheric pressure should be same.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">In the process of osmosis pressure required from higher concentration area to stop the movement of solvent from lower concentrated solution to higher concentrated solution when a semi permeable membrane separates the two solutiions, is called Osmotic Pressure (OP).</sent>
				<sent id ="102">More the difference of concentration of two solutions more the OP, and less the difference of concentration, less will be the OP. if the concentration of two solutions is same there will have no OP and osmosis will not run.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Due to endosmosis water enter into the cell and the cell become swollen.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">This swollen condition of the cell is called turgidity.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Due to turgidity the protoplasm exert a pressure on the cell wall; this pressure is called Turgor Pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Procedure: Take half bowl of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Cut two ends of the potato and make a hole at one end.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Now fill up half of the hole of the potato by sugar solution and keep the potato (Potato Osmoscope) in the bowl's water.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Care should be taken so that water level should be below the top of the potato cup.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Observation: After some times it will be seen that the level of the solution in the potato cup is increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Conclusion: Outside surrounding the potato there is water and inside the hole there was sugar solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Cell walls of potato is permeable and the cell membrane is semi permeable (selectively permeable).</sent>
				<sent id ="113">So the water from the bowl enters through the cell wall and cell membrane to the solution in the hole of the potato.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">As water enters to high concentration solution through semipermeable membrane so other process is osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Necessity of osmosis in plant life is unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">A short description about this is given bellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">* Absorption of water: Plant absorbs water by root hairs in the process of osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">* Movement of water: Water moves inside the, plant body by cell-to-cell of osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">* Opening and closing of stomata: Opening and closing of stomata is controlled by osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">So osmosis also controls the rate of transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">* Swelling and growth of cell: For normal growth and expansion of the cell it needs to swell.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Cells become expanded by absorbing water through osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This osmosis plays an important role for the growth of the cell and maintains its normal shape and size.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">* Equal distribution of water: Water is essential for almost all the organic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">These activities are going on in the living cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Osmosis is very active to reach water to every living cell from root to leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">* Turgidity of the cell: Soft cells become turgid by absorbing water.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Cell absorbs water by osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">* Germination of seeds: The success of germination depends on the process of osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Both water and minerals are essential for plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Plants absorb water and minerals from soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The process of absorption of water and minerals is described very briefly The higher plants absorb water from soil by their root hairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Root hair region is termed as absorption region.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Unicellular root hairs are specially modified epidermal cell for absorption of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Cell walls of root hairs are made of cellulose and thus it is permeable.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Beneath the cell wall, there is the cell membrane, which is selectively permeable.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Inside the root hair the cell sap is concentrated and in the outside there is water in between soil particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">So water from soil enter into the cell through permeable cell wall and selectively Physiogical Activities in Plants permeable cell membrane by osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Afterwards this water from root hair reaches the vessels of xylem tissue by cell-to-cell osmosis .</sent>
				<sent id ="140">From vessels the water moves to leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Cell division region at the top of the root is known as mineral absorbing area, some salts also absorb by root hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Plant cannot take solid salts.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Water absorbed directly and minerals are taken as ions.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Water absorbed by root hairs and minerals are taken by cell division region at the top of the root.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Water is absorbed by osmosis and some portion of minerals is taken by diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Water with dissolved mineral salts inside a cell is called Cell Sap or Sap.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The apical region of root (Meristamatic region and root hair region) absorbs water and mineral salts from soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The process by which the cell sap raises from absorption region to the leaf and other parts is called ascent of sap.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">This raising of sap takes place through Vessels and Tracheids of Xylem tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The root hairs are spread in the spaces between soil particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">In the spaces there are capillary water.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The concentration of cell sap in the root hairs is more than the water and dissolved mineral salts in the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Thus water enters into the root hairs by osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">When water enters into the root hairs the concentration of its sap become less than the concentration of the sap of the adjacent cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">As a result water from root hair moves to adjacent cell by osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">In this way water moves from one cell to another and ultimately reaches the vessels of xylem tissue crossing the endodermis placed at the central region of the root.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The vessel cells are tubular and are placed end to end forming a continuous tube from root to leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Water molecules are attached one another in such a way that is called Cohesion.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Water molecules are also attached with the vessel walls this attachment is called Adhesion.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Due to cohesion and adhesive force of vessels, and the pulling force (drawing force) of transpiration, the stream of water remain continuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">In this way water and dissolved mineral salts from root reach up to different organs like branches, leaves and flowers etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">We can observe ascent of sap by a nice experiment in the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It will require a fresh Peperomia plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The stem of Peperomia Plant is transparent.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Partly fill up a beaker with water and make it red by mixing a small amount of safranin.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Put the plant in the coloured water in such a way so that its roots remain submerged in coloured water.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">After few hours it will be seen that the stem of Peperomia plant become red because of gradual up rise of red water through the xylem tissue of the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Transpiration is a physiological process.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">In this process plant loose water in the form of water vapour through their aerial parts mainly through the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">So it may be defined as Loss of water in the form of water vapor from leaves and other aerial parts of a plant is called transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Plant absorbs water by their roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">This water conducted to all aerial parts like stem branches and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">So the water vapour that comes out from the plant is of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Internal water of plants usually comes out by three ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Stomatal transpiration: There are pores with two guard cells in leaves, young stems, in calyx and corolla of flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">These pores are called stomata (sing: stoma).</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Number of stomata is found more in leaves than other parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">For this reason in Bengali stomata are called pores of leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">About 90% to 95 % of transpiration of plant takes place through stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Transpiration that takes place through stomata is called stomatal transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Cuticular Transpiration: There are Cutine coatings in young stems and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">This cutine coating is called Cuticle.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Usually vapour does not come out through cuticle.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">But if the cuticle is thin and if the stomata are closed then a small part of transpiration takes place through cuticle.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">As transpiration take place through cuticle, it is called Cuticular transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Lenticular Transpiration: Due to secondary growth in stem, there develops small pore by rupturing the epidermal layer at places.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">These pores are called Lenticels.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Some portion of transpiration takes place through these lenticels.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">As transpiration takes place through lenticels, it is called Lenticular transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Stomata are present in leaves, young stems, calyx and corolla of flower etc. a small pore encircled by two guard cells is called a Stoma.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Cell walls of guard cells adjacent to stomata are thick but the walls on opposite side are thin.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">There present a large nucleus and many chloroplasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The swelling and looseness of the guard cells regulate the opening and closing of stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">When the guard cells swell up the stomata opens and when it looses the stomata closes.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The ventral surface of dorsiventral leave bears more stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Stomata are present on the leaf, usually on the ventral surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">At the upper epidermis of dorsiventral leaves there are palisade parenchyma and at the lower epidermis there are spongy parenchyma.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">In spongy parenchyma there are many air spaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Stomata are present near the air space and placed on the lower epidermis.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Usually vascular tissues i.e. xylem and phloem are present at the connecting zones of Palisade and Spongy parenchyma.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Root hairs absorb water from soil and reach to the leaf through stem by vessels and Tracheids of xylem tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">On reaching leaf the water come out of the xylem tissue and spread throughout all the cells of the leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">The outer walls of the spongy parenchyma always remain wet to absorb carbon dioxide (CO2), necessary for photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The air inside the air space of spongy parenchyma come in contact with water of spongy parenchyma and absorb water vapour and store in the air spaces behind the stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Later on the vapour come out to the atmosphere through the open stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Air, O2 and CO2 also moves through open stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">In most plants stomata remain open during daytime and closed in night.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">In succulent plants stomata remain open at night and closed in daytime.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">As a result of photosynthesis the carbohydrates inside the guard cells converted to soluble glucose and the guard cells absorb water from adjacent cells and become turgid and the stomata opens.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">the soluble glucose converted to insoluble carbohydrate, the guard cell loose water to the adjacent cells by exosmosis and become flaccid.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">As a result the stomata closes.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">For this reason transpiration takes place in daytime.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Affecting factors of transpiration are of two types; External and Internal.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Light: Photosynthesis takes place in presence of light and as a result stomata opens.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">So light is the main factor, which influence transpiration Temperature:</sent>
				<sent id ="216">With the increase of temperature water vapourises rapidly and increased the humidity in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">So temperature controls the rate of transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Relative Humidity: If relative humidity is less the water vapour holding capacity of the air decreases, therefore rate or transpiration decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">* Air Current: The air current disposes the saturated air (as a result of transpiration), away from the plant and thus increases the rate of transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">* Atmospheric pressure: Under low pressure water vapourise at low temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">So if pressure decreases the rate of transpiration increases and if pressure increases the rate of transpiration will decrease.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">* Soil water: If availability of soil water is less the rate of transpiration will decrease.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">* Root-Leaf Ratio: If the number and total surface area of leaves become much less in comparison with root region (absorption region) the rate of transpiration will reduce.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">* Leaf area: The greater the leaf area, greater will be the rate of transpiration, and lesser the leaf area the lesser the rate of transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">* Internal surface of leaf: Thin cuticle, thin cell walls, exposed stomata, and well-developed spongy parenchyma favour transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">On the other hand leaves those possesses thick cuticle, thick cell walls, well-developed palisade parenchyma, Sunken stomata etc. will reducd the rate of transpirations.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">* Ascent of water and cell sap: Transpiration creates a pull on the water column in the xylem vessel (which is called transpiration pull);</sent>
				<sent id ="228">as a result the water absorbed by the root and cell sap goes upwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">* Conduction of water and minerals to leaves: water and minerals conducted to the leaves by transpiration pull.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">So water, necessary for photosynthesis and Mg, necessary for production of chlorophyll, conducted to leaves by transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">So it can be said that transpiration plays an indirect role on manufacturing food by photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">* Maintaining proper temperature and release of energy in leaf: Leaves are taking energy from the sun every moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Only 1 % of this energy is utilized in different reactions.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The rest heat energy released by transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">If the temperature in leaf does not remain in optimum condition, all the organic activities would have been seized.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">So this is also a good aspect of transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">* Cell division and physical growth: Transpiration indirectly maintains osmosis and thus keeps all the cells rigid.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">As a result it enhance cell division and development of the organ.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">* Resistance to Fungal infection: Due to transpiration there deposits certain hygroscopic salts on the leaf surface, which resists fungal infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">* Absorption of C02 for photosynthesis: Spongy mesophyll cells of leaves receive C02 from air present in the air spaces, by diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">For this the outer layer of the spongy mesophyll should always be wet.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The air inside the air spaces absorbs water from here and transpires through stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Excess of transpiration may cause shortage of water in plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">So excess of transpiration is harmful to plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Photosynthesis is a biochemical process.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">In this process green parts (specially leaves) of plants manufacture carbohydrate food by CO2 and water with the help of energy obtained from sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Here light energy is converted to chemical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Plants absorb CO2 and release O2 as bi-product in the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Chlorophyll pigments are present in the chloroplasts of plant cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Water absorbed by roots reaches to the mesophyll cells in the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The process of photosynthesis is shown by the following reaction: Photosynthesis is such a biochemical reaction by which chloroplast, in the plant cell, uses the energy, received from the photon of sunlight, manufactures carbohydrate food by CO2 of the atmosphere and water and other organic substances in the CO2 cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Photosynthesis is a complex and lengthy process.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">In 1905 A.D. Blackman divides the process into two phases namely: Light Phase and Dark Phase.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Light Phage: Light is essential for this phage.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">In this process water breaks down to O2, e- (electron) and Hydrgen (proton = H+) by the help of energy obtained from sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Such break down is called as Photolysis or Photolysis of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Large amount of light energy is assimilated in chemical compound named ATP (Adenocine Tri Phosphate) and NADPH2 (Nicotinamide Adenocine Dinucleotide Hydrogen Phosphate) as chemical.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">ATP and NADPH2 are called assimilatory Power.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">This process of formation of ATP by using light energy is called Photophosphorilation. Photophosphorilation may be of two types - Cyclic and Non-cyclic.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Two pigment systems (Pigment system-1 and Pigment system-2) control the light phase of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Dark Phase: Light is not required in this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">ATP a NADPH2, produced in light phase, are utilised in this process to manufacture carbohydrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">The process of manufacture of carbohydrate is as follows: - CO2, from atmosphere enters inside the leaf thus in the cell, through stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">CO2 combined with Ribulose 1,5 Diphosphate, present in the ccll produces an unstable compound named Keto acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">This Keto acid later on break down into two molecules named a 3 -Carbon compound named 3-Phosphoglyceric acid (first stable compound).</sent>
				<sent id ="266">This Phosphoglyceric acid then converted to 3- Phosphoglyceraldehyde and Dihydroxy Acetone Phosphate utilising ATP and NADPH2, produced earlier in light phase.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">By several successive reactions these 3-Phosphoglyceric acid and Dihydroxi Aceton Phosphate ultimately produce Carbohydrate (Sucrose-Sugar) in one side and Ribulose 1,5, Diphosphate on the other side.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Prof. Calvin and Bassham of California University discovered this cylce of producing carbohydrate by utilising CO2 of the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Thus this cycle is named as Calvin and Bassham cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">First stable compound of this cycle 3- Carbon compound thus these types of plants are called C3 plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Another cycle of producing carbohydrate has discovered.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">It is called Hatch and Slack Pathway.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">In this process the first stable compound is a 4- Carbon compound, named oxalo-acetic acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">These types of plants are called C4 plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Sugarcane, Maize, Cyprus grass etc. are examples of C4 plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">You will know more detailed in higher classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Photosynthesis occurs in green parts in leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Various types of tissues are present in the leaf, such as upper epidermis, lower epidermis, vascular tissues and mesophyll tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Mesophyll tissue again are of two types-compactly, arranged elongated cells at the upper epidermis are the palisade parenchyma tissue and loosely arranged cells at the lower epidermis is the spongy par- enchyma tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Usually photosynthesis occurs in palisade parenchyma cells of the leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Palisade parenchyma contains innumerous chloroplasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">The process of photosynthesis completed in these chloroplasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">The portion of palisade parenchyma in a dorsiventral leaf is shown in diagram (Fig: 9.8).</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Sunlight: Sunlight is essential for photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">The high-energy compound - ATP and NADPH2 are formed utilising the Sunlight which help carbon reduction in dark phage.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">High intensity of light reduces the rate of Photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Carbon dioxide: Manufacture of carbohydrate is not possible without carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Thus if the amount of CO2 reduces in air (in air there is 0.03% of CO) the rate of photosynthesis reduces.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Water: Water makes the guard cells turgid and the stomata opens.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">on the other hand water is utilised as a raw material in dark phase of the process.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Temperature: Photosynthesis seized near 0C and above 45 of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Optimum temperature for photosynthesis is 22C- 35C.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Below 22C and above 35C rate of photosynthesis decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Oxygen: If density of oxygen increases in atmosphere the rat of photosynthesis will decrease.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Manufacture of plant food: To live food is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Green plants manufacture food by the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">If the green plant would not be able to manufacture food, then no plant could live in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Supply of food for Animal Kingdom: Only green plants manufactures food by the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">No animal, even man can manufacture their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Rice, Bread, Fruits Fish Meat, Milk etc. whichever we eat all we get directly or indirectly from plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">So the Animal Kingdom is completely dependent on green plants, and the green plant manufacture these food by the process photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">So it can be said, the process of photosynthesis prepares of all the foods for both plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Source of Energy: Much energy is exhausted in our works and movements.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Source of this energy is food.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Green plants manufacture food by the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Energy comes to food from the Sun light energy trapped as chemical energy in foods manufacture by photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Food breaks down in every living cell producing energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Source of our all energy is food and source of energy of food is the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">So Sun is the source of all energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Energy that needs in metabolic activities in plants and animals come from food too.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Ecological Balance: In maintaining Ecological Balance particularly balancing the ratio of O2 and CO2, photosynthesis plays a special role.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The amount of oxygen gas in the airs 20.946% and that of carbon dioxide is 0.033%.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">This is the normal amount of oxygen and carbon dioxide gas in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">For normal growth and living of plants and animals in this world, amount of these gases should be within normal range.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">On variation of the normal ratio the atmosphere will be imbalanced.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">We know respiration goes on in every living being (plants and animals).</sent>
				<sent id ="317">In respiration O2 gas is taken in and CO2 gas is driven out.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Plants and animals both are taking O2 and releasing CO2 during respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">If this system goes on successively there would have shortage of O2 and excess of CO.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">But as green plants absorb CO2 and release O2 during Photosynthesis, so the ratio of O2 and CO2 in the atmosphere is still all right.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Due to excessive deforestation the ratio of these two gases in the atmosphere is being destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Therefore, we should have to plant trees more and more.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Contribution of Photosynthesis in Human Civilization: Men survive only because photosynthesis is present in green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">But apart from the survival, the contribution of photosynthesis is unlimited in the arena of human civilisation.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Coal, Petrol, Rayon, Cellophane, Paper, Rubber and Medicines etc. all are the gift of plant's.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Procedure: The Hydrilla plant should be kept in the beaker and covered with the funnel.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Hydrilla plant be placed in such a way that its cutting ends remain towards the stem of the funnel.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Water should be poured in the beaker in such a way that the stem of the funnel kept beneath the water level.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">A test tube completely filled with water should be inverted over the stem of the glowing splinter to flame so the gas is Oxygen, because Oxygen does not flame itself but helps other to flame.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Requirements: A Variegated leaf of an Ornamental plant, Alcohol, Iodine solution, and a Beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">At this position the experimental set should be placed in Sunlight (or under electric light in the laboratory).</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Observation: After sometimes it will be seen that bubbles are coming out from the Hydrilla plant and are accumulating in the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">After accumulation of some gas the test tube should be taken out carefully and a glowing splinter of wood be thrusted into the test tube, it will burst into flame.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Procedure : A variegated leaf of ornamental plant should be collected at noon and its green portion be marked, then it should be boiled in alcohol and then immersed in Iodine solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Observation: After immersing in the Iodine solution it will be seen that only the green portion of the leaf become blue (deep violet or black).</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Conclusion: Due to presence of chlorophyll only the green portions manufactured carbohydrate by photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Having no chlorophyll orange or yellow regions did not manufacture carbohydrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">As there was carbohydrates in green portion, that portion become blue (deep violet or black).</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Experiment to show that light is essential for Photosynthesis:</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Requirements: A potted plant with green leaves, Black paper, Alcohol, Iodine solution, and clips, (the plant should keep in dark for a long time before experiment).</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Observation : On taking out from the iodine solution it will be seen that all the area except the covered area became blue (deep violet or black).</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Conclusion: Carbohydrate react with iodine solution turns to blue (deep violet or black).</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Conclusion: Carbohydrate react with iodine solution turns to blue (deep violet or black).</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Sunlight did not reach the area covered with black paper photosynthesis did not occur there, that is carbohydrate did not produce.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">As carbohydrate did not produce there the area did not turn blue (deep violet or black).</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Thus it is proved that Sunlight is essential for photosynthesis so to say for manufacture of carbohydrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Procedure : Cover both side of a leaf with black paper and clip so that Sunlight cannot reach inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Then let the pot with the plant be kept in Sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">After one hour tear the leaf and boil in alcohol so that the leaf becomes chlorophyll free.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Now let the leaf be immersed in iodine solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Experiment to show that photosynthesis cannot occur without CO2 :</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Now take out the potted plant from darkness and insert half of a leaf in the bottle through a splitted cork, and fix tightly the cork to the bottle.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Care should be made taken that a part of the leaf is placed inside the bottle.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">The bottle should be air tight with vaseline so that no air from out side can enter into the bottle.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">The CO2 present in the air inside the bottle will be absorbed by caustic potash (KOH) solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Now the experimental set should be placed in Sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">After 34 hours take that leaf and after boiling in alcohol immerse it in iodine solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Observation: On taking out of the iodine solution it will be seen that the portion of the leaf that was out side the bottle become blue (deep violet or black, and rest portion becomes yellow or brownish yellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Conclusion: The outside portion of the leaf absorbed CO2 and manufacture carbohydrate by photoynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Carbohydrate turns blue in iodine soulution.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">The portion of the leaf kept inside the bottle did not manufacture carbohydrate, as there was no CO(CO2 present inside the bottle was absorbed by KOH solution).</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Thus it is proved that CO2 is essential for Photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">The portion of the leaf inside did not get both CO2 and Light so it could not take part in photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">In non-cyclic stage of photosynthesis in the light phage, O2 evolved from splitted water.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">If O2 was not relesed in the atmospher in the photosynthesis process, then there would be a great scarcity of O2 in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">As a result the entire living creature would have perished because our respiratory system stops functioning for want of O2.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Carbohydrate is produced during photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Plant reserved the excess carbohydrate after their requirements.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">For example: Paddy, Wheat, Maize, Barley, Potato, Sweet Potato, Sugarcane etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">We took these as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">If green plants do not manufacture carbohydrate in photosynthesis, then for want of food all of the members of Animal Kingdom including human beings would have been destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">If there were no Sunlight on the Earth there will have no Photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Without photosynthesis there would be no movement of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">The earth would become motionless.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Without Sunlight no living being could exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Every living being (Plants and Animals) have organic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Any work/function outside or inside the body there need energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">The main source of this energy is the Sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Green plants trapped light energy in carbohydrates (and others) food.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">This food successively being oxidised release energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Using these energy living world performed all functions and reactions.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">O2 is needed to oxidize these organic compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">As a result of oxidation CO2 is formed inside the living body.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Therefore it is revealed that organic compounds oxidize by the reaction with O2, which is absorbed from the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">As a result of oxidation energy and CO2 are releases.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Living bodies utilize the energy but release CO2 to the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">The process ran in both plant and animal cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">The process, by which energy and CO2 are produce by oxidation of food materials combining with O2, is called Respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">In respiration carbohydrate, protein, fat, organic acid etc. are oxidize and produce energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">The substances which take part in respiration are known as Respiratory substrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Respiration occurs in cytoplasm and mitochondria of a living cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">There is no definite time for respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">This process runs 24 hours throughout the day and night.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Though respiration occur in all the cells yet the rate of respiration is more in developing region like flower and leaf buds, germinating seeds, apical region of root and stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">The process of respiration is explained by the following reaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Respiration is of two types .</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Aerobic Respiration and Anaerobic Respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">The respiration where O2 is essential called aerobic respiration The respiration that does not require O2 is called anaerobic respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Aerobic respiration occurs in all higher plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Only few lower plants (some Bacterial and Fungi) have anaerobic respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">The processes are discussed below:- Aerobic Respiration: Aerobic Respiration is the normal respiration in plant and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">In this process Carbohydrates break down and produce CO2 water and energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Usually aerobic respiration is completed in four steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">In aerobic respiration the complete oxidation of one molecule glucose totally produces 6 molecules of water and 38 ATP (686 K. Cal.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">First two steps occur in cytoplasm and next two steps occur in mitochondria.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Every reaction of respiration is completed with the help of special types of Enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Anaerobic Respiration: Anaerobic Respiration does not require any O2.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Step - 1: Glycolysis: In this step from one molecule of glucose there produces 2 molecules of Pyruvic Acid, 4 molecules of ATP (2 molecules utilised) and 2 molecules of NADH2.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Step - 2: In this step from each molecule of Pyruvic Acid there produces one molecule of Ethanol (Alcohol) and one molecule of COOr from each molecule of Pyruvic Acid there produces only one molecule of Lactic Acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Energy produced in this process is utilised by living beings to perform all sorts of reaction and other functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">CO2, released in this process is utilised directly or indirectly in photosynthesis and produces carbohydrate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">This process helps plants in absorption of water, which indirectly keeps running growth and other organic processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Organic acid that produces in respiration is necessary for other organic activities, Respiratory energy also heps cell divinion.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Importance of Anaerobic respiration : Some Bacteria cannot live in presence of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Among them the only process of producing energy is anaerobic respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">In this process Ethyl alcohol is produced, industries, which is used in different industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">The process is utilised in Lactic Acid fermentation.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Temperature: Below 20C and above 45C the rate of respiration reduces.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">The optimum temperature for respiration is 20C - 45C.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Oxygen: If the amount of oxygen is reduced the rate of respiration will reduce.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Water: Optimum supply of water maintains the rate of respiration normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Rate of respiration reduces for scarcity of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Light: The stomata opens in light, so rate of respiration comparatively high in day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Carbon dioxide: With the increase of CO2 in air, rate of respiration decreases slightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Internal Factors: Food materials: During respiration food materials break to release water and COSo the quality and quantity of food materials in the cell regulates the rate of respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Age of cell: Rate of respiration is maximum in young cells especially in meristamatic cells (as there is much protoplasm).</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Enzymes: Different reactions of respiration need different kinds of enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">The process completely depends on their presence.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Inorganic salts: Rate of respiration increases if there is more inorganic salts in the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Four Main Differences Between Aerobic And Anaerobic Respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Experiment to prove that Heat is evolved during Respiration: Requirements: One Thermo flask, some germinating Gram seeds and a thermometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Conclusion: Rise of mercury indicates the rise of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">And this temperature is produced by the respiration of the germinating seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Requirements: One small beaker, one test tube, a stand with clamp, mercury, some gram seeds, a piece of caustic potash and a pair of forceps.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Procedure: Partly filled up the beaker with mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Fill up a test tube completely with mercury and invert it with the help of the thumb and put it over the beaker containing mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Now keep the test tube upright by clamping with a stand in such a condition as if the mouth of the test tube remain in the mercury but not touched the bottom of the beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Now introduce some germinating gram seeds into the test tube with the help of a pair of forceps.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">As the seeds are lighter than mercury, they will float over Mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Leave the experimental set for observation.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Procedure: Some germinating gram seeds are taken in the Thermo flask and closed its mouth tightly with a cork.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">A thermometer is introduced through the cork so that its bulb rests among the gram seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Note the mercury reading of the thermometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Observation: After some time an increase in the reading of mercury in the thermometer will be observed.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Observation: After several hours it will be seen that the mercury at the top of the test tube has displaced downwards by a gas released by germinating gram seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Now introduce the caustic potash stick into the test tube with the help of a pair of forceps.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">It will be observed that the test tube is completely filled up with the displaced mercury as the gas is absorbed by caustic potash stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Conclusion: The gas is absorbed by caustic potash so it was CO2 and respiration of gram seeds released the gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Air cannot be present in the mercury and the gram seeds were present in mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">So the respiration of gram seeds was anaerobic.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Therefore in anaerobic respiration O2 is not required.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">We know seeds give rise to seedlings, from seedlings there develops a large plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Plant produces flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">These are all the results of growth and development of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Embryo is present in the seed.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Growth of embryo is the germination.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">So without the growth of embryo germination of seed will not take place.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Without germination seedlings will not produce.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Without growth of seedlings a large plant will not develop.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Without development of a large tree we shall not get flowers, fruits, seeds, wood, crops, or the forest and nothing of this sorts.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">So growth and development of plant is essential for them so that they can again produce seed to maintain their growing by reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Again the growth and development of plant is essential for all animals including human beings, because with growth and development of plant we will not get anything like - food, medicine, cloths, house building materials and a habitable environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Growth is a fundamental characteristic of all living organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Growth means a permanent increase in shape, size weight and in bulk of a plant or its organ.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">Region of Growth: The ideal growing region of plants are its root and shoot apex.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">In root or shoot apex there are apical meristems.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">This region is also known as primary meristamatic region or primary growth region.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Growth in length: The apical Meristamatic tissue by successive cell division creates new cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">The new cells later on increase in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">In this way by the formation of new cells and their increase in size, the apical parts successively increase in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Formation of young leaf and bud is also the function of these tissues.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">At the top of the root there present a cover like structure, which is called root cap.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">The cell division region is behind the root cap region.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">The cell of this region divide rapidly and forms many new cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Behind the cell division region of elongation.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">Cells of this region increase in size and volume especially in length, as a result length of root increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Behind the region of elongation lies the permanent region.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">Cells of this region are mature and are different is shape and size.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">At the top of stem there is a bud called apical bud or shoot apex.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">Cells of apical bud are meristamatic cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">Therefore this is the cell division region, because cells of this region divide rapidly and increase in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">Behind this region is the region of elongation, as cells of this region rapidly increase in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">Behind this region is the permanent region, cells of this region is mature and are different in shape and size.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">The breath of a one-year-old mango tree increases after one year.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">In this way with the increase in age its breath also increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Breath of a mature root and stem is increased by secondary growth (lateral growth).</sent>
				<sent id ="487">Usually secondary growth occurs in gymnosperms and dicot plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">So all the broader plants of the world either gymnosperm or dicot plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">Examples of gymnosperms are Cycas and Pinus.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">Mangos, Jamboline, Litchi, Shaal, Garjan, Sundary, Teak, Gamari, Karai etc. are examples of dicot plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">Increase in breath takes place in root and stem by their secondary growth in intrastellar or extrastelar region.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">First in the intrastelar region of vascular bundles there develops a cambium ring.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">This cambium ring produces secondary xylem tissue towards the center and secondary phloem tissue towards the periphery.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">As many secondary xylem and secondary phloem is formed from the cambium ring so much increase the breath.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Secondary growth also takes place in extrastelar region (out side the pericycle).</sent>
				<sent id ="496">We came to know that apical region of stem is the ideal region of growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">During apical growth there develops young leaves and sometimes axillary bud.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">Always the rate of development of axillary bud is lesser than that of apical bud.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">It is observed that if the apical bud is removed the growth of axialiary bud expedite.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">For production and better growth of buds at the lower region in many cases the apical bud is removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">In Tea plant if apical bud is removed many axillary buds produces.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">In this way the tree characterstics of tea plants changes to shrubby nature, and production of bud therefore, the production of tea increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">The dominating tendency of apical region of stem is called apical dominance.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">The growth regulatory substance named Auxin mostly present at the shoot apex, for which growth rate is higher at this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">When apical bud is removed Auxin flows downwardly, thus produces axillary bud or accelerate their growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">You can demonstrate the apical dominance very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">Cut the apical bud of a potted chili or ornamental plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">Then it will be observed that the axillary buds developed to branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Without cutting the apical bud not much branching will occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">There are some biochemical substances, small amount of which regulate the growth of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">These substances are produced in the plant bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">As they regulate the plant growth so they are called growth regulators.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">Earlier they were called Hormone.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">As they are produced in plants they are now named phytohormone.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">Phyto- means plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">When one look at the Banyan tree it will be seen that the branches and sub-branches are growing towards the light, but the Prop roots originated from the branches growing towards the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">If a gram seed is kept on wet soil it will germinate within a few days.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">It will be seen that its radicle gradually develop and goes into the soil and plumule goes upwards against the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">The movements of plant organ towards certain direction like light; earth or water is called tropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">The tropism maybe towards stimulant like light, earth or water or may against to those.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">Movement of plant organ towards the stimulant is called positive tropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">On the other hand movement against the stimulant is called negative tropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">A seedling of gram or chili may demonstrate phototropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">Take a glass bottle with cork.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">Fill up the bottle with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">Insert the plant into the bottle through the cork so that the stem remains outside the cork and the roots remain inside being immersed in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">Place the bottle at a place where it gets light from one side.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">After one day it will be seen that the stem bends towards light but the tip of the root bends against light.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">Phototropism may also be demonstrated by putting a potted plant on a perforated wooden box.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">Leaves of plant manufacture food by using energy from sunlight and both plants and animals world depends on this food.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">Phototropism : The stem and branches of plants always expanded towards light but root and its branches expands against the light.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">Movement of stem towards light is called positive phototropism and movement of root against light is called negative phototropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">We know all the fruit yielding plants like Aam, Jaam, and Boroi etc. plants are planted at almost every home in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">It will be seen if you observe carefully that all the plants does not flowers in the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">Mango tree flowers in winter and its fruits ripe in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">But Boroi flowers in autumn and fruit ripe in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Let we have another example.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Bean is a winter vegetable.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">Cultivated almost at every home in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">Its seeds are sown in rainy season and the plant flowers in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">At the end of winter it's flowering stops and in the next winter after the year it flowers again.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">Majority of food for plants remain in earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">Root absorbs these foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">So the movement of root towards earth is quite significant.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">Hydrotropism: The movement of root is towards water and expansion of stem is against water.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">The movement of root towards water is positive hydrotropism and expansion of stem against water is negative hydrotropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">Chemotropism: Earth contains more organic manure thus the root and its branches expanded towards that direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">Movement towards chemical substances is Chemotropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">Geotropism : Movement of root is towards the earth and movement of stem is against the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">A movement towards the earth is negative geotropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">Put a germinating gram seed on soil in a pot and keep the pot in such a closed room so that light cannot come from any direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">After one day it will be seen that the root of germinating gram seed bended and enter into the soil and the stem bended against the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">We know the length of daytime is short (long night period) is winter in Bangladesh and in summer and rainy season length of day is longer (Night time shorter).</sent>
				<sent id ="554">A short day time is required to product flower in bean plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">So it flowers in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">As the daytime is longer in summer so bean plants does not bloom in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">Therefore it is observed that in Bean plants vegetative growth takes place in longer day period and in shorter day period it flowers i.e starts yielding.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">Thus it is understand that in growth and development of plant (Bean is only one example), there is influence of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">The influence of length of daytime on flowering of plants is called Photoperiodism.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">In 1920 Garner and Allard observed the affect of photoperiods in Maryland Mammoth a variety of tobacco plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">According to effect of length of day and night (photoperiods) upon the flowering time Garner and Allard classified the flowering plants into three classes: Short day Plant: These plants flowers when day length is short.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">Dahlia, Tobacco, Chrysanthemum are short day plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">They may also call long-night plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">Two species of jute are short - day plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">In 10 - 12 hours photoperiods plants flower in 30 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">More than 12 hours of photoperiods delayed flowering.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">Long day Plant: These plants give flower, when day-length is longer.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">Sponge guard (Luffa) Lettuce and Beta palonga (Palong) is long day plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">They may also call short night plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Day-Neutral Plants: Flowering time of these plants does not depend on the duration of daylight.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">They flower when necessary vegetative growth is completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">Day-neutral plant can be grown in both winter and summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">They flower in both the seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">Sunflower is a plant of this type.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">Aus paddy usually a day-neutral plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">Leaves receive the stimulation of photoperiods.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">If all the plants were short-day plant or all long - day plant, then we would get only one crop in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">There would be problem in preservation of crops, again in a certain time in the year there will be scarcity of various fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">As there are short day plants, long-day plants and day-neutral plants in nature, thus we get some one or other crops, vegetables or fruits throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">Like light, temperature and cold also have effects on plant growth and flowering.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">It was seen, that in many germinating seeds when treated with cold cause early flowering.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">Application of cold treatment to germinating seeds to effect early flowering is called vernalization.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">In 1920 AD Russian scientist T. D Lysenko invented this method of acceleration the ability to flower by cold treatment and named as Jarovization.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Later the term Jarovization was renamed in Latin as vernalization.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">Vernalization is induced on germinating seeds or young seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">They are kept in low temperature (usually 13 - 15C) for some days thus cold treatment completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">The apical meristamatic cells of the plumule or seedling receive stimulation of vernalization.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">Importance of Vernalization: In Russia Biannic wheat is converted to annual one by vernalization treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">In our country large amount of paddy is being destroyed by flood.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">If the flowering time of paddy be accelerated by 5 - 10 minutes then it will be possible to protect paddy of Crores of Taka.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
