<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-biology-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.078</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">1173</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">15572</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">3009</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t34">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Amoeba: Amoeba proteus is a simple one celled animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">It is so small in size that it cannot be seen clearly without a microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Amoeba is an excellent example of Subkingdom Protozoa, Kingdom Protista or Protoctista.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Though they are members of protista at present, they are discussed with animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Following that tradition, they will be discussed along with.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Though the body of Amoeba is formed of a single cell, the functioning of this cell is not so simple.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Within the cell of Amoeba, many physiological functions like respiration, nutrition, reproduction, excretion, stimulation etc. are performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Habit and Habitat: Amoeba is found throughout the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">It lives in pond, river, and other freshwater pools.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Soft wet soil, leaves and stems of aquatic plants or any hard surface may harbour Amoeba, It is a free living animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">By producing finger like pseudopodia they move and intake their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Body structure: Amoeba appears as a colourless and transparent drop of jelly when viewed under a microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It lacks a definite body shape because it changes its shape by producing the pseudopodia every moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">So, it is not possible to describe its definite shape, anterior or posterior ends, dorsal and ventral surfaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Moreover, as Amoeba's shape is changeable, its body cannot be divided into two similar parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">This condition is called ,asymmetry.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">In size, a full grown Amoeba generally may be from 1/20 mm to. 1 mm.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The body of Amoeba can be divided into two main parts, Plasmalema and Protoplasm. A.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Plasmalema or Plasma membrane: The body of Amoeba is covered with plasmalema formed by the combination of protein and lipid.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">This membrane is extremely thin, living, semi-permeable and elastic.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Plasmalema of Amoeba gives its shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">It holds the various organelles inside the protoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The membrane being elastic it can produce pseudopodia easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">By the process of diffusion, through the plasmalema it takes oxygen and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">It also discharges carbon dioxide and excretory materials through the membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">It helps the Amoeba to become attached to any solid surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">B. Protoplasm: The thick jel1y like substance surrounded by the plasmalema is the protoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">It can be divided into two parts, Cytoplasm and Nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Cytoplasm: Without the nucleus, the rest of the protoplasm is cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">It is divisible into two parts, such as Ectoplasm and Endoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Ectoplasm: The part of cytoplasm immediately behind the plasma membrane is known as ectoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">This part is thick, transparent, non-granular and contractile.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Endoplasm: The granular portion of cytoplasm which is surrounded by the ectoplasm is known as the endoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">This part is semi transparent and less viscous.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The relatively thick outer part of endoplasm is called plasmagel and inner liquid part plasmasol.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The granules of plasmagel generally always remain stable.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">But the granules present in plasmasol show active movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The difference between plasmagel and plasmasol is .not</sent>
				<sent id ="40">consistent because one can be transformed to other.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">It assists in various physiological functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Frequent change in the density of the plasmagel and plasmasol helps in producing pseudopodia.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Nucleus: At the middle of the endoplasm the translucent round body seen is the nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">It cannot be clearly seen in the body of living Amoeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">There is only one nucleus in Amoeba.,</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The nucleus is covered by the nuclear membrane made of protein and lipid.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Inside there remain chromatin fibres and the nucleolus.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The amount of nucleoplasm is scanty in the nucleus of Amoeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Nucleus conducts the functions of the Cell body.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Nucleus takes active part in reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Pseudopodia: Froml any part of the body of living Amoeba finger like growth are produced continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">These are known as pseudopodia.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Pseudopods are made of plasmalema, ectoplasm and endoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">These are unstable outgrowths of the body and disappear soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The anterior part of pseudopods is round and blunt.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Pseudopods help in capturing the food materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">They play an important role in locomotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Pseudopods indicate the anterior part of the Amoeba at the time of locomotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Vacuoles: There are several types of vacuoles in Amoeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Presence of the vacuoles is an important characteristic of Amoeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The nature of formation of these vacuoles is rather simple.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The vacuoles help in various physiological functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">There are three types of vacuoles in Amoeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Contractile Vacuole: In the endoplasm of Amoeba some bubble like vacuoles are seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">These vacuoles are transparent and fast growing.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">In the body of the living Amoeba these vacuoles can continuously be contracted or expanded, so, these have been named as contractile vacuoles.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Contractile vacuoles store the watery substance of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">They-help in the removal of excess water and excretory products.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">They help in the expulsion of carbon dioxide produced during respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Food Vacuole: In the body of Amoeba food vacuole is formed surrounding the food material.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">There may be one or more of this vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Size, shape and number of these depend on the size, shape and number of food materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Food vacuoles store the food material.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">They help in the digestion of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">They have also roles in excretion of faecal materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Water vacuole: The smallest transparent, round water filled vacuole in the body of Amoeba is the water vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">In number it can be one or more.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Water vacuole is noncontractile.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Functions: Water vacuole contains water and keeps the balance of water constant of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">If an Amoeba is examined under high-powered microscope some organelles are seen as.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Goigi bodies: Within the'stained body of Amoeba some structures are seen which looks like small tubules and vesicles.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">These are known as Golgi bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Function: Golgi bodies help in secretion and excretion of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Mitochondria: Around the contractile vacuoles some rod or dot like structures are seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">These are mitochondria.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Function: They take part in respiration and in energy generation.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Reserve food: In the endoplasm of the body of Amoeba food particles remain stored as fat and starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">When necessary these stored food materials provide nutrition to Amoeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Crystals: Crystal particles of different shapes and sizes are found in the body of Amoeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">It is assumed that these crystals are simply the faecal substances produced during metabolism.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Locomotion: Animals move from one place to another for food, self-defense and in search of favourable environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Such voluntary movement of animal is known as locomotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Amoeba move very slowly and its locomotion is irregular.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Amoeba move with the help of special type of finger-like out growth known as pseudopodium (Plural-pseudopodia).</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The meaning of pseudopodium is false foot(pseudo means False and podos means foot).</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Amoeba at the time of locomotion, produce pseudopodia from different parts of the body and these again disappear within the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">This particular type of locomotion of Amoeba is called Amoeboid movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">At the time of locomotion pseudopodia come out from any part of the body and the animal advances in that direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Simultaneously with the formation of pseudopodia, the protoplasm of the body of Amoeba flows in that direction and with that other parts of the body move that way.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">In this way Amoeba advances towards its target.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">It can form pseudopodia at any part of its body and always move at the direction of pseudopodia.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">When new pseudopodia are formed on one side of the body, the old pseudopodia disappear.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">In this way, Amoeba moves by rolling.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Nutrition: Energy is required for physiological function.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Food is the source of this energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Nutrition is a process, By this process Amoeba performs its food ingestion, digestion, absorption, assimilation and excretion of faecal materials Body reorganization and growth also occur through this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Food: Amoeba takes small algae, bacteria, diatom and various micro organisms as its food.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Process of intake of food: Amoeba has no digestive system.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">For the intake of food there is no mouth or any other fixed organ.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">At the time of food intake Amoeba becomes attached to a surface and with the help of pseudopodia ingest food by various methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">It can select organic and inorganic foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">It takes about 2 to 3 minutes to ingest the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Circumvallation: In this process Amoeba takes mobile and solid food substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">With the help of pseudopodia it surrounds the food material.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Without touching the food material, the edges of the pseudopodia come close together and with the ectoplasmic membrane form the food vacuole along with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">When the pseudopodia surround the food material it looks like a cup.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">It is called Food cup.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Circumfluence: In this process Amoeba takes immobile food materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Immediately after coming in contact with the food material, amoeba forms a food cup and by stretching the pseudopodia it brings the enclosed food in direct contact with the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">In this way, Amoeba takes the food material inside the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Import: If any food material comes on its body, by being motionless and without stretching any pseudopodia, Amoeba makes the food inactive.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Then the inactive food material is taken inside the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This is called import process.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Besides Amoeba secretes a kind of toxic juice from the body which kills the living food material.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The ectoplasm along with the food enters the endoplasm in the form of a tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Then the plasma membrane disappears and forms a food vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">In this process no pseudopodium is required to receive the food material.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Pinocytosis: In this process Amoeba takes liquid food materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">At many times in different parts of the body surface of Amoeba the plasmalema gets folded and enters into the endoplasm,as a result of which a tube like structure is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This tube is called pinocytic tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">With liquid food materials the tube forms pinosome or small cavities, which later on is taken within the endoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Digestion: The cytoplasm of the body cannot absorb directly the food materials which Amoeba intakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Reacting with various enzymes these food materials are converted into simple components for assimilation.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This is digestion process.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Digestion occurs in two process-acidic and alkaline.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Amoeba has no digestive system.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Food is digested inside the food vacuoles.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Along with the body movements the food vacuoles are brought well inside the endoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">the endoplasm, hydrochloric acid from the inner membrane of the vacuoles works on the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">It kills the living food materials and makes the contents acidic.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Thus the acidic process is finished.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Next alkali is secreted from the neighboring cytoplasm which brings the partly digested food material into the alkali media.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">At this time, various types of enzymes are secreted from the endoplasm enters the food vacuole along with the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">In the digestion of food more than one enzyme participates.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">It is however not known definitely which enzymes take part and what their order is.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">It is assumed that there is a possibility of the presence of protease, lipase and carbohydrates enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The enzyme named protease is secreted when food remains in an acidic medium inside the food vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">It converts the complex protein food into simple peptides.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">When the food vacuole becomes alkaline, the enzyme peptidase becomes active.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Due to this reaction peptide is transformed into amino acids.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Lipase transforms the fat portion of the food into fatty acid and glycerol.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The enzyme amylase acts on the carbohydrate part of the food and transforms it into glucose.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">As the digestion process continues, the form of the food material is gradually changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Absorption: Through the actions of enzymes complex food materials are converted into simple materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">These simple food components inside the food vacuole are absorbed by the endoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Egestion : Inside the endoplasm of amoeba, the digested food is absorbed and the remainder is stored in the food vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The food vacuole gradually approaches to the cell membrane of the body opposite to pseudopodia.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">At one stage the contents of the vacuole are thrown outside the body through the plasma membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Respiration: There is no definite structure for respiration in Amoeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">They respire through aerobic process.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">In absence of any definite organ, there respiration is accomplished by the plasmalema.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Respiratory work mainly occurs through diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The amount of dissolved oxygen of water where Amoeba lives is higher than the oxygen content of cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">As a result, oxygen can easily enter the body of Amoeba by diffusion process.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Oxygen is required for respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">To meet this requirement diffusion continuously occurs in the body of Amoeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Carbon dioxide produced due to chemical reaction, is eliminated from the body in the same manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">This process can easily happen as the amount of carbon dioxide is more in the cytoplasm of Amoeba than in the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Excretion: The process by which the nitrogenous waste materials are collected and removed from the animal body is called excretion.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The excretory material of Amoeba is mainly ammonia.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">In dissolved condition these excretory materials are discharged outside through the plasmalema by the process of diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Reproduction: Reproduction is one of the most important characteristics of organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The biological process by which an organism, to check its extinction, either singly or with the help of the opposite sex of the same species, produces progeny is called reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Amoeba mainly produces its progeny by asexual process.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Asexual reproduction process is of two types, Binary fission and Sporulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Binary fission: Growth of the body is an important characteristic of organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">With suitable environment and proper food, the amount of cytoplasm of the body of Amoeba increases also with the volume of body.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The growth of the body reaches to such an extent that its cytoplasm cannot perform the metabolic activities smoothly.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">At this stage Amoeba starts to multiply by binary fission.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">In this process one mother Amoeba divides into two daughter Amoebas.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">At the beginning of the division, Amoeba withdraws its pseudopodia.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The body then takes a circular shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Its nuclear membrane disappears and the nucleus becomes larger and conspicuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Gradually the nucleus takes a long shape and the mid-section contracts.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">At this time the endoplasm around nucleus becomes slightly loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The chromosomes situated in the nucleus divide longitudinally.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The two daughter chromosomes move towards the two opposite poles and the mid-section becomes narrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">As a result the nucleus takes the shape of a dumbell.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The cytoplasm then deposits surrounding the nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">About the same time plasmalema being folded enters towards the interior.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Next the nucleus is divided into two parts and the plasmalema folds meet together.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">As a result the mother Amoeba transforms into two daughter Amoeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">In the meantime the cytoplasm surrounding the nucleus which is being divided approaches the fold.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">At this stage, the nucleus is divided into two parts to form two daughter nuclei.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Finally the cytoplasm surrounds each nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Next the plasmalema is formed outside the cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">As a result, the mother Amoeba becomes transformed into two new small Amoebas.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Then these new daughter Amoebas begin their own free life.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">To survive under unfavourable environment Amoeba produces a thick wall around its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This is called cyst wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">This stage is known as cystic stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Sporulation: Surrounded by an cyst wall in unfavourable condition, the nucleus of Amoeba is divided by multiple divisions and forms numerous spores.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">This process is known as sporulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">In this process first nuclear membrane of Amoeba disappears and the nucleuos is divided into several chromatin segments by repeated divisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">They remain in free state inside the endoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">These chromatin parts then become encloses by nuclear membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Later on cytoplasm surrounds these small parts and finally plasmalemma is formed around them.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Next the spore membrane is formed outside the plasmalema.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">In this way in the body of an Amoeba more than hundred spores may be formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Breaking the plasmalema, next these spores come outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">In a favorable condition, daughter Amoeba comes out from the spores.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Roundworm is found throughout the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Ascaris lumbricoides is generally known as the roundworm.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">They live as an endoparasite in the intestine of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Compared to other worms the roundworms are bigger in size and tubular in form, like an earthworm.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Eggs of the worm enter the human body with air, water, green fruits and vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Man is the only host of the round worms.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Habitat: Roundworm is widespread throughout the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Its outbreak is seen in Bangladesh, India, China, Korea and Philippine etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">External morphology: A live roundworm is generally dull white in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">It looks tubular like the earthworm.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">In the body of roundworm, we can see four longitudinal lines, one dorsal, one ventral and two laterals in position.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">In length, the female roundworm can be up to 20-25 cm while the male is up to 15-20 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Mouth is situated at the anterior end of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">There are three lips on the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Of these one is on the upper side and the other two on the two sides of the mouth cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">To discharge excretory materials, there is a cloacal aperture or anus on the lower side of the posterior end of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Reproductive cells are discharged through this cloacal aperture in male worm.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Two spine-like structures come out from the cloacal aperture, of the male worm.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">These are called penial setae.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The cloacal and genital apertures are separate for female worm.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The genital aperture of the female is situated on the ventral side of the anterior end of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Digestive system: The structure of the digestive system of round worm is very simple.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The Pharynx alimentary canal is formed of mouth aperture, buccal cavity, pharynx and intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Mouth is situated at the anterior end of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Mouth aperture opens into the buccal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The pharynx is situated behind the buccal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The pharynx is somewhat bulk muscular and divided into three chambers.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">With the help of the pharynx the roundworm sucks food materials from the intestine of its host-body and gets nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Behind the pharynx is situated the narrow intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Posteriorly the intestine joins the rectum.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The rectum opens outside through the cloacal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Round worm has no digestive gland.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">As they directly absorb simple liquid food from the body of the host they do not require digesting it further.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Parasite : An organism that lives permanently or temporarily on or inside the body of another organism and depends fully or partly on the host organism for its nutrition is called a parasite.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Their Physiological systems are of simple type.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The external body covering of the endoparasites is firm but semipermeable.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The parasites have higher reproductive capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">On the basis of the location of parasites on the host body, the parasites are of two types, Ectoparasite and Endoparasite.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Ectoparasite : They live on the outer side of the host body, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Endoparasite : They live inside the host body, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Parasite and parasitism : We have learnt earlier that the round worm lives as a parasite inside the host body and gets nourishment by taking digested food materials from he intestine of its host.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">So it is called an endoparasite.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Round worm gets shelter and nutrition from the host body, as a result of which the host suffers from anemia and malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The relationship that is formed between the host and the parasite is known as parasitism.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Excretory System : Excretion is the process of discharging unwanted nitrogenous waste materials from the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The structure of the excretory system of round worm is very simple.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The system consists of two-long tubes at the two sides of the body against the lateral lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Meeting together at the other end, the two tubes open outside through the excretory pore or cloacal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Reproductive System : The round worm is a unisexual animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Generally the male worm is smaller in size than the female and the posterior part of its body is bent.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Male Reproductive System : The male reproductive system consists of a testis, sperm duct, seminal vesicle and an ejaculatory duct.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">The testis is formed like a coil and occupies a greater portion of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">The sperm duct is located behind and the bulky posterior part is the seminal vesicle.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">It later opens into cloacal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">They have a pair of penial setae.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Male round worm discharges sperms through the cloacal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Female Reproductive System : The Female round worm is larger in size than the male.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The female reproductive system consists of two ovaries, two uteri and one vagina.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">These organs, are situated in the posterior half of the body of the worm.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The ovaries are coiled and narrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Eggs are produced at the. posterior part of the ovary.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The oviducts are connected with the ovary.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">The eggs produced in the ovaries pass to these ducts.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">A part of the oviduct enlarges to form a seminal receptacle.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Here the sperms are stored.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The oviduct meets the uterus.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The two uteri uniting together form the tubular vagina.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The vagina opens outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">through the female genital aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Life cycle : The ovum and sperms of the round worm meet together at the upper side of the uterus.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">After fertilization the zygote or fertilized egg is covered by a wall made of chitin.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">The eggs of roundworm are very small and elongated.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Along with the faeces of the host these eggs come outside of the host body.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Embryo formation begins inside the fertilized egg when it remains within the shell.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The primary larval stage of the roundworm is called Rhabditiform larva.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Infection : No intermediate host is required for the infection of round worm.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Eggs enter directly into the body of the new host along with contaminated air, food and drinks.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Hatching of embryo : Hatching of embryo usually occurs within two hours after the egg reaches the intestine through stomach of the host body.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Transformation to adulthood : After the entry of the egg in the intestine of the host, the shell is dissolved by the intestinal juice of the host and the larva is freed from the shell.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">They pierce the intestinal epithelium and enter into the lymphatic vessels or the blood capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">They travel to various organs along with the blood circulation: At this condition, for sometime, the larvae are entrapped in the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Ascending the respiratory tube the larvae reach to the pharynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Due to their presence the throat of the host irritates and this may cause coughing.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Along with cough the larvae comes up to the throat.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">They again reach the intestine if one swallows the cough.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">The larvae once again change their shell in the intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Here ends their migratory life.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">When inside the intestine, they are nutrited by taking digested food juice from the host.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Within a few days the larva changes into a full worm.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">In Bangladesh the incidence of infection of this worm is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Most of the children of our country suffer from this infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">A single host may contain 100 to 400 worms.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">They produce Ascariasis disease in children.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">When intensity of infection is high, the illness may take a serious turn.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">An affected person shows the following symptoms: The belly of the children becomes swelled up.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">When the number of worms increases in the intestine, vomiting tendency and loss of appetite are observed.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">In the final stage worms may come out with vomit.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Indigestion and physical weakness are seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Balance between acid and alkali is lost in the intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Due to infection with round worm the patient feels pain in the belly and anemia is developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Prevention: In the mean time, we have known that most of the children of our country get infected with round worms.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">As a result, these children suffer from anemia and malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Following measures should be taken if one wants to get-rid of the round worms: Stop the habit of discharging faecal matters at open places and use sanitary latrines.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Take green fruits after thorough washing with pure water.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Keep your hands clean and clip your nails.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Before taking food and after using latrine wash your hands well.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Abstain from taking cold and rotten food.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Get rid of the worms by taking medicine after consulting a physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Toad is an amphibian animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Among the vertebrate animals the amphibians live in water at the first stage of their life, respire by gills and when mature, live on land and respire with the help of lungs and integument.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">For this reason they are known as amphibian animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The scientific name of Toad is Bufo melanostictus.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">They are cold blooded animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">The integument is rough and the integumentary glands keep the integument moist.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">They have two pairs of appendages and a three-chambered heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Females lay eggs and the fertilization takes place outside the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">At the primary stage of life cycle generally tadpole larva is seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">At the tadpole stage they respire with gills and when mature with lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">In the fore limb there are four and in the hind limb there are five fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Habitat: The toad lives in shady and dark moist places, corners of the house, in the bushes or in the stacks of bricks or in pools.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">In Bangladesh frogs and toads are more commonly seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Besides there is another kind of frog called Tree frog.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Habit: Toad is cold-blooded animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">During the daytime they hide in the dark and moist places.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">They come out at night in search of food and eat live worms, insects, earthworms and even snails.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Temperature of their body varies along with that of the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">They cannot stay in dry and sunny environments.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">For this reason, during winter we cannot feel the presence of toads.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">During this time, they lead an inactive life in the holes or crevice of trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">They do not even come out to have food.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">They get energy from the reserved fatty materials inside the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">This mode of inactive life of toad during winter is called hibernation.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">At the beginning of the summer season, toads come out of the holes.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Rainy period is the reproductive season of toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">To attract the male for sexual contact, the toad calls the female by making croaking sounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Most part of their life cycle is spent on land.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">During breeding time they have to come to water.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Toad hops around when they moves on land and swims when in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">The body colour of toad is grey, as a result of which, it can hide easily at the corner of the houses, in crevices of trees, and under stack of bricks etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Toad is an ugly animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Its skin is grey coloured with warts.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Toad is 10-13 cm long and 7 cm wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Its body can be divided longitudinally into two similar parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">So they are bilaterally symmetrical.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">The body of toad can be divided into two regions head and trunk.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">It has no neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">A fully-grown toad has no tail and the fingers of the feet are clawless.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Head : The front portion of the head of toad is blunt and the posterior portion wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">At the front end of the head there is a wide mouth situated transversely.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">There are two jaws above and below the mouth aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">There are no teeth in the jaw.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">At the upper side of the mouth towards the front end of the head there are two apertures provided with thin valves.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">These apertures are the nasal apertures.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Two round eyes are situated at the posterior part of the nasal apertures.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">In the eye of toad there are three eyelids, upper eyelid, lower eyelid and a transparent thin membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">This thin membrane is called nictitating membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">There are no hairs in the eyelids of toad, nictitating membrane protects the eye from dust and keeps it moist.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">At the back of each eye there is situated a round, smooth membrane they are tympanum.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">At the back of the ears there are two glands on the two sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">These are called parotid glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">From these glands toxic juices are secreted.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Toad utilizes this secretion for self-defense.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">At the junction of head and trunk of male toad, that is, on the ventral side of the mouth cavity, there is a blackish sac.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">It is called vocal sac.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Vocal sac takes part in the production of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Trunk : The trunk of the toad is small and the thorax and abdomen cannot be marked separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">The trunk is wider and bulkier than the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">They have a pair of legs in front and a pair at the back of the trunk.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Front pair of legs is called forelimbs and the posterior pair is called hind limbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">As the base of the fingers of their legs is partly joined together by a thin membrane, they are called webbed feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">In the forelimb of toad there are four and in the hind limb there are five clawless fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">During the breeding season at the lower side of the forelimb of the male toad a kind of pad is seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">It is called nuptial pad.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">At the end of the posterior there is an aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">This aperture is known as cloacal aperture, through which faeces, urine and reproductive cells are discharged outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Observing the external characteristics, it is possible to separate the female toads from the male ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">During the breeding season these differences are more obvious.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">In our country mainly two types of toad are available; One is the toad and the other is frog.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">They both feed on insects, worms and other small living creatures, Many of the insects, worms and the living creatures harm the crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Toads eat them to benefit men.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">The differences between these two types of toads are given in the following table.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Skeletal system of Toad : The system which gives the body its structure, a definite shape and protects the soft organs (like heart and lungs) is called skeletal system.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">The skeletal system of toad is mainly formed by the combination of bones and cartilages.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Bones of the skeleton remain attached with one another by various muscles and ligaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The skeleton of toad is mainly divided into two categories, Axial skeleton and Appendicular skeleton.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Axial skeleton : The axial skeleton is situated along the mid dorsal line of the body and is formed by the combination of skull and vertebral column.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">The axial skeleton is extended from the anterior end of the head to the posterior end of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Skull : The part of the axial skeleton which forms the frame of the head and protects the brain is called skull.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">It consists of various small and large bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">A skull has different parts, such as cranium, upper jaw, lower jaw, nasal, capsule eye cavity, ear cavity, hyoid apparatus etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The small cavity at the middle of the head surrounded by small bones, in which the brain lies, is called the cranium.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">At the posterior part of the cranium there is a big aperture called foramen magnum.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Through this opening the spinal cord comes out from the brain and enters the vertebral column.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">At the floor of the buccal cavity of the toad, there lies a plate like structure made of cartilage called hyoid apparatus.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Upper and lower jaws surround the mouth aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">The upper jaw is firmly attached with the cranium but the lower jaw can move up and down.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">In the wall of the cranium there are several paired pores.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Through these pores the cranial nerves from the brain comes out.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Functions of skeleton : The skeleton does the following functions: a.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">It gives structure and firmness to the body- The skeleton forms the hard structure of the body and gives it a definite shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">It protects soft organs - The skeleton protects the important soft organs of the body such as, heart, lungs, brain, etc. c.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">It stores fat and produces blood corpuscles- White bone marrow stores the fat and red bone marrow produces the red blood corpuscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">It helps in the attachment of muscles- Skeleton forms the surface for the attachment of muscles, muscle ligaments and mesenteries and helps in keeping the various organs of the body in definite positions.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">It carries the weight of the body and assists in locomotion-The coordination of skeleton an skeletal muscles helps in carrying the weight and movement of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Vertebral column: The vertebral column is extended from back of the head till the posterior end of the body of the toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">It is also called the backbone.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Vertebral column surrounds the spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">The vertebral column of the toad is formed by nine ring like bones called Vertebrae and a long bone called Urostyle.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The structure of the first and ninth vertebra of the vertebral column is different.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">The structure of the second to eight vertebrae are almost alike.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Atlas: The first vertebra of the vertebral column is called the atlas.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">It is connected with the skull in front and the second vertebra (at the posterior).</sent>
				<sent id ="424">The atlas looks like a ring.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">It has no transverse process, neural spine and prezygapophysis.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Its neural canal is comparatively bigger in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Atlas meets the next vertebra with the help of post zygapophysis.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">An ideal vertebra is formed of centrum, neural canal, neural arch, neural spine, transverse process, pre-zygapophysis, and post-zygapophysis.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Centrum: This solid part is present in the middle of the ventral surface of every vertebra.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Its front part is concave and the back part is convex.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">This type of centrum is called procoelus.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Due to this structure, the vertebrae can easily be attached to both in front and at the back.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Neural canal: The cavity surrounded by the neural arch is called neural canal.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">The spinal cord Passes backward through this.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Neural arch: The tip two bones generating from the two sides of the dorsal surface of the centrum forms a circular ring.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">This ring is called the neural arch, which surrounds the spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Neural spine: Two neural arches joining together form a spine like process.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">This spine like part is the neural spine, muscles attaching with it gives the body firmness.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">e. Transverse process: From the side of every neural arch, a long bone extends transversely.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">This bone is known as transverse process.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Different muscles are attached with the process.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Pre-zygapophysis: The up looking spoon like thick fold that comes out from the front of every neural arch is called pre-zygapophysis.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">It gives the body firmness by attaching itself with the two post-zygapophysis of the vertebra in front.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Postzygapophysis: The two down looking spoon like folds that come out from the back of every neural arch are called posti-zygapophyss.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">They remain attached with the pre-zygapophyses of the posterior vertebra.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">As a result the attachment of the vertebrae becomes firm.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Urostyle: Urostyle is a long rod shaped bone situated at the back of the ninth vertebra.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Several vertebrae are fused together to form this structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">It is situated at the end of the vertebral column in between the two iliums.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">On the dorsal side of this bone there is a knife-like ridge called neural crest, and the bone is gradually narrowed towards the back.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">The concave part of the front end of the urostyle remains attached with the convex part of the ninth vertebra.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">There is very fine neural canal between this concave facet and neural crest.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Ninth vertebra: The ninth vertebra is also called the sacral vertebra.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">It is bigger in size and hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Transverse process of this vertebra is hard, flat and wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">This feature of the ninth vertebra enables it to be differentiated from other vertebrae very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">The posterior end of this vertebra has been transformed into two convex parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">The Urostyle is attached with these two convex parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">The transverse process attaching with the Ilium of the pelvic girdle bears their weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">The vertebral column by giving a definite shape forms to the frame of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">It surrounds the spinal cord and protects it.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Being attached with the pelvic girdle it assists in bearing the weight of the body and its movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Being attached with the transverse process and neural arches of the muscles, vertebrate make the movement smoother.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Appendicular skeleton: The appendicular skeleton of toad is divided into two regions, one is Girdle region and the other is Limb region.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">In the body of toad there are two girdles.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">The fore limb is attached with the anterior girdle or the pectoral girdle.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">Similarly the hind limb is attached with the posterior girdle or the pelvic girdle.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Pectoral girdle: The pectoral girdle almost encircles the anterior part of the trunk region of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">It occupies almost the whole interior region of the body excepting the midline of the dorsal side.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">This part is covered with skin and muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">The pectoral girdle of toad can be divided into two equal or symmetrical parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Each symmetrical part is formed with the combination of bones and cartilages.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">This girdle remains attached with the backbones by muscles as a result of which by keeping it in a proper place, completion of different types of work becomes very easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">Pectoral girdle holds the fore limb.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">It protects the soft organs of the body such as lungs, heart etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">We have known earlier that the pectoral girdle can be divided into two similar parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Each part consists of the following components: a. Supra-scapula: It is a wide, plate like cartilage.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">One end of the supra - scapula is joined with the scapula and the other end remains free.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">The free end is attached with the backbone by muscles and ligaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">Scapula: Scapula is a narrow hard long bone.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">One end of this bone is attached with the supra-scapula and the other with the clavicle and coracoid.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">Clavicle: Clavicle is a narrow and long bone.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">It is also called collar bone.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">This bone is situated in front of the scapula and it covers the pre-coracoid.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">Its one end takes part in the formation of scapula and the other end in the formation of glenoid cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Coracoid: This bone is hard bulky and thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">One end of the coracoid, which is attached with the scapula, forms the glenoid cavity and the other end is joined with the precoracoid.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">e. Precoracoid: It is an axe-like part formed from a long and narrow cartilage.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">Precoracoid is situated at the bottom and side of the clavicle and remains enclosed by the clavicle.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">Epicoracoid: It is a bent cartilage whose one end is joined with the coracoid and the other end with the precoracoid.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">Glenoid cavity: In every half of the pectoral girdle there is a cavity in between the junction of scapula, coracoid and clavicle.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">This cavity is known as glenoid cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">Sternum: At the ventral side of the body there is an expanded part made of cartilage behind the coracoid of the two halves of the pectoral girdle, it is called the sternum.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">The posterior end of the sternum is rounded in toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Humerus: The upper most bone of the fore limb is called the humerus.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">It is long and slightly bended.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">Both ends of the bone are stout.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">A ridge called the deltoid ridge is found on the upper of the humerus.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">The head of the anterior part of the bone is round.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">With this head, the humerus remains attached with the glenoid cavity of the pectoral girdle.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">At the other ends of the humerus, lies a rounded bone mass.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">It is known as trochlear process.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">It helps in attaching itself with the next bone.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">Radia-ulna: The middle bone of the fore limb of toad is the radia-ulna.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">Actually this bone is formed by fusion of two bones the radius and the ulna.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">At the junction of the two bones there lies a longitudinal mark.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">The bone in the inner side is known as radius and the one located outer side is known as the ulna.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">In front of this bone there is a carve known as sigmoid notch.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">The trochlear of humerus is jointed there.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">Near the notch there is a projection called olecranon process.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">Carpal: The carpal is formed by the six small bones of the wrist.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">With three bones in each row, a total of six bones are arranged in two rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">The posterior end of radia-ulna is joined with the carpals.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">The fore limb of toad is formed by the combination of some small and large, bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">Metacarpal: The palm is formed with four narrow bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">These bones are called metacarpals.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">They bear the weight of the palm of forelimb and remain attached with the phalanges.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">e. Phalanges: In the forelimbs of toad, there are four fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">The finger-bones are called phalanges.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">There are two phalanges on the first and second.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">fingers and three on the third and fourth fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">Pelvic girdle: The pelvic girdle can also be divided into two equal parts like the pectoral girdles.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">This girdle attaches the hind limb with the backbone and bears the weight of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">This girdle looks like English letter `V.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">Each part of the pelvic girdle consists of three separate bones and one cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">IIium : The longest bone of pelvic girdle which is slightly bent and rod shaped is called ilium.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">Its front end remains attached with the ninth vertebra.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">Ischium: It is a semi lunar bone situated between the ilium and pubis.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">Pubis: It is a triangular cartilage situated between ilium and ischium.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">Acetabulum: A cavity situated at the junction of the three bones of the pelvic girdle is called the acetabulum.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">With the acetabulum the head of the femur of the hind limb remains attached.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">Hind limb: a. Femur: The first solid bone of hind limb is femur.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">The two ends of the femur are swollen and the middle portion is bent.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">The rounded part of the anterior end remains attached with the acetabulum.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">Tibia-fibula : The knee bone is called tibia-fibuala.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">This bone is formed by the fusion of two.The tibia is situated in the inner side of the body and the fibula is in the outer side.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">There is a ridge at the junction of the two bones, known as cnemial crest.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Tarsals: The ankle bones of the feet are called tarsal.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">These bones arranged in two rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">The two bones of the upper row are known as astragalus and calcanium.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">The ends of these bones bear cartilages.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">The space between the two bones is hollow.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">The two bones of the second row are small and shapeless d.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">Metatarsal: The sole of the foot of toad is formed of five narrow stick-like bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">These bones remain attached with the phalanges at the lower portion.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">e. Phalanges: In the hind limb of toad there are five fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">There are two phalanges in the first and second fingers, three in the third and fifth fingers and four in the fourth finger.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">Besides, towards the inner side of the hind limb there is a bony extension named calcar.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">The toad lives on worms, insects etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">The cells of the body cannot assimilate these food substances directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">Hence digestion of food material is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">The system which takes part to perform this work is called the digestive system.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">In other words, the system by which food is ingested, digested, absorbed and the undigested portion is ejaculated from the body as faeces are called the digestive system.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">Digestive system of the toad can be divided into two parts such as Alimentary canal and Digestive glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">a. Alimentary Canal: The canal extended from, the mouth opening to the cloacal aperture is called the alimentary canal or gut.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">Sometimes this canal is narrow and sometimes it is wide and coiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">Mouth: At the front end of the body of the toad the mouth or mouth opening is situated.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">The mouth of the toad is quite wide and semicircular.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">There are two jaws on the upper and lower sides of mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">It cannont move the upper jaw, but it can move the lower jaw.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">The jaws are toothless.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">Buccal cavity: Behind the mouth opening the wide buccal cavity is situated.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">On the lower side of the buccal cavity lies the wide muscular tongue.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">Its front end is attached with the lower jaw and the posterior end is free.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">Tongue is the main organ for capturing prey.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">The toad catches worms and insects throwing the posterior part of the sticky tongue in a reverse way and brings them directly into the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">Internal nasal apertures, aperture of the eustachian tube etc. are situated inside the buccal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">Pharynx: The narrow extended part of the gut between the buccal cavity and oesophagus is the pharynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">Oesophagus: The stout, short and canal like part next to the pharynx is the oesophagus.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Through the oesophagus, food substances reach the stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">Stomach: Behind the oesophagus the curved sac like part is the stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">Its wall is thick, muscular and glandular.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">The glands remain within the inner surface of the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">The stomach is divided into parts, cardiac and pyloric part.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">Comparatively the thicker part which is close to the oesophagus, is the cardiac part and the part which is close to the small intestine is the pyloric part of stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">There is a round muscular valve at the junction of the stomach and intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">It controls the entrance of food into the small intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">Intestine: The coiled duct extended from behind the stomach up to the cloacal aperture is the intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">The intestine is divided into two parts, Small intestine and Large intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">Small intestine: The narrow, coiled anterior part of the intestine behind the stomach is the small intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">The small intestine is again divided into two parts, Duodenum and Ileum.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">Duodenum: The first part of the small intestine which is like the English letter U is called the duodenum.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">The stomach and the duodenum remain suspended in the body cavity by a thin transparent membrane called peritoneum.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">The bileduct and the pancreaticduct together open into the duodenum.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">Ileum: The second part of the duodenum is the ileum.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">This cannal is comparatively longer, narrower and more coiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">The inner walls of ileum bear finger-like projections called villi and digested food materials are absorbed through the surfaces of the villi.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">Large intestine: Posterior to the small intestine, the comparatively thick part is the large intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">It is divided into two parts, rectum and cloaca.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">In the rectum, salts and vitamins are absorbed and the undigested part of the food is stored here.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">No food material is digested here.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">Cloaca is the terminal part of the large intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">Here separately open the urinary duct and the reproductive duct.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">The cloaca opens outside through an opening called the cloacal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">Through the cloacal aperture come out the faeces, urine and the recrpoductive cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="596">Digestive glands: The glands which secrete digestive juices and digestion and helps in the digestive process are called the digestive glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">Toads have two main digestive glands, Liver and Pancreas.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">Liver: Liver is the largest gland of the body, located on either sides of the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">This gland is divided into two parts, right and left, which are connected together by a middle part.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">Liver is a large chocolate or dark brown colour gland.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">The gall bladder remains in the middle of the two parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">The bile secreted from the liver is stored in this bladder.</sent>
				<sent id ="603">The functions of the liver are a.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">Liver stores glycogen, fat and vitamins.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">That is why it is called the store house of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">It assists in protein synthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">In the liver the nitrogenous excretory paroducts are transformed into urea.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">Red blood corpuscles originates in liver.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">Pancreas: Pancreas is a very important digestive gland of the vertebrate animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">This gland is situated in between the stomach and duodenum.</sent>
				<sent id ="611">It looks like a leaf and is light yellow in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">The bile duct and the pancreatic duct join together to form hepatopencreatic duct and open into the duodenum.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">Nutrition and Digestion: Intake of food, digestion of food, absorption of digested food materials and elimination of undigested waste materials are included in nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">Toad is a carnivorous animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">The main food of toad is live worms, insects, earth worms, snails etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">With the sticky tongue it catches the prey and swallows it.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">Like all vertebrate animals, in the food of toad protein, carbohydrate, fat, salt, vitamins and water components are present.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">These six types of components can be obtained from the bodies of worms and insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="619">It is not required to digest salt, vitamins and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">The cells of the body of toad can directly absorb these three types of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">But protein, carbohydrate and fat are complex organic substances; hence the body cells cannot absorb them directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="622">In the presence of enzymes these insoluble, complex and non absorbable food substances take part in organic chemical reactions and transforms into simple and absorbable liquid components.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">These changes of food substances are called digestion.</sent>
				<sent id ="624">After the intake of the food, there are no chemical changes inside the buccal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="625">The food substances become slippery by the mucus secreted from the walls of the buccal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="626">Food substances reach the stomach through the oesophagus where digestion begins.</sent>
				<sent id ="627">Digestion in stomach: Inner walls of the stomach are glandular.</sent>
				<sent id ="628">After the food substances reach the stomach a hormone is secreted from its walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="629">This hormone is called gastrin.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">By the influence of gastrin, digestive juice is secreted from the gastric glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="631">The digestive juice contains mucin, hydrochloric acid and pepsin.</sent>
				<sent id ="632">Pepsin is a kind of enzyme.</sent>
				<sent id ="633">Mucin: It is not an enzyme.</sent>
				<sent id ="634">It makes the food substance slippery.</sent>
				<sent id ="635">Hydrochloric acid: It destroys the germs coming in with the food substances, and creates the acidic medium to activate the pepsin.</sent>
				<sent id ="636">In this situation the action of pepsin hastens.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">Pepsin: From the gastric gland inactive papsinogen is secreted.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">Hydrocloric acid transform this inactive pepsinogen enzyme into active pepsin.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">Pepsin converted the protein into proteose and peptone.</sent>
				<sent id ="640">The stomach continuously contracts and expands.</sent>
				<sent id ="641">Thus food materials in the stomach are transformed into semi liquid substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="642">This half-digested liquid is called chyme.</sent>
				<sent id ="643">Digestion in duodenum: When the chyme reaches the duodenum from the stomach, it comes in contact with the bile, secreted from the liver and pancreatic juice from pancreas.</sent>
				<sent id ="644">Bile converts the fat food into smaller droplets and makes it suitable for reaction with enzyme.</sent>
				<sent id ="645">Besides, it neutralizes the acidity of the food and brings them to alkaline medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="646">As a result, action of pancreatic juice hastens.</sent>
				<sent id ="647">There is no enzyme in the bile.</sent>
				<sent id ="648">The name of the digestive juice secreted from the pancreas is pancreatic juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="649">Three enzymes are present in this juice, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="650">Trypsin, Amylase and Lipase.</sent>
				<sent id ="651">Trypsin: Trypsin converts the proteose and peptone into soluble and absorbable amino acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="652">Digestion in Ileum: When the digested food substance reaches the ileum, enzymes are secreted from its walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="653">There are Protein splitting trypsin, carbohydrates spliting amylase, moltase, sucrase, lactase and fat splitting lipase enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="654">As a result, rest of the undigested protein, carbohydrate and fat are converted into amino acid, glucose (monosaccharide) and fatty acid and glycerol respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="655">Absorption: Digested liquid and simple food i.e. glucose and amino acids are absorbed by the capillaries of the villi of the small intestine and the fatty acid and glycerol being absorbed by the lacteal ducts of the villi.</sent>
				<sent id ="656">Excess glucose reaches the liver through hepatic portal vein.</sent>
				<sent id ="657">Here glucose is transformed into glycogen and is stored.</sent>
				<sent id ="658">Excess amino acid being transformed into urea is discharged as excreta through the kidney and the fatty food stored at different places of the body as fat.</sent>
				<sent id ="659">Egestion: After the absorption of digested food, the undigested part of the food reaches the large intestine from the small intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="660">Here water and mineral salts are absorbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="661">The rest of the waste material is stored in the rectum.</sent>
				<sent id ="662">Afterwards these are thrown out of the body through the cloacal aperture as faeces.</sent>
				<sent id ="663">Circulatory system: To sustain life toad requires food and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="664">Body cells cannot directly take the ingested food substances and oxygen from air.</sent>
				<sent id ="665">So digested food substances and oxygen from air are required to reach each cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="666">Similarly it is required to expel carbon-dioxide and other wastes from the body formed as a result of metabolism.</sent>
				<sent id ="667">For this reason an efficient transport system is build in the body of the animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="668">Blood and lymph work as internal transport media.</sent>
				<sent id ="669">Blood and lymph supplies oxygen, hormone and digested food to the cells and help in egestion of excretory products of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="670">This process is called circulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="671">The circulatory system is formed of blood, heart, blood vessels and lymph vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="672">Blood is a kind of liquid connective tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="673">The blood of toad is red.</sent>
				<sent id ="674">It is produced from the mesoderm cell layer of the embryo.</sent>
				<sent id ="675">Blood is divided into two main components, Plasma and Blood corpuscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="676">White blood corpuscle: White blood corpuscle is bigger in size, less in number, colourless and has nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="677">White corpuscles are produced in bone marrow, spleen, and lymph glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="678">They can change shape like the Amoeba and destroy germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="679">If necessary they may come out from the thin membrane of blood vessel and destroy harmful substances if there is any.</sent>
				<sent id ="680">Platelets: Among the blood cells the smallest corpuscles are the platelets.</sent>
				<sent id ="681">These cells are spindle shape and are nucleated.</sent>
				<sent id ="682">These are originated in the bone marrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="683">Platelets help in the clotting of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="684">bone marrow, liver and spleen.</sent>
				<sent id ="685">Haemoglobin easily mixes with oxygen to form oxyhaemoglobin.</sent>
				<sent id ="686">In a similar way oxyhaemoglobin being reduced transforms into haemoglobin and the red blood cell supplies oxygen to the cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="687">Plasma : Plasma is the main component of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="688">It is trasparent.</sent>
				<sent id ="689">slightly alkaline substance and light yellow coloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="690">Besides water in the plasma, food, hormone, mineral salt, carbon-dioxide, fibrinogen and various gaseous components remain in dissolved condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="691">In plasma the blood corpuscles remain suspended.</sent>
				<sent id ="692">The primary function of the plasma is to transpot the blood corpuscles and other substances to different parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="693">Supply of essence of food and water: Plasma supplies the digested food materials and water to various parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="694">Supply of oxygen: Blood supplies oxygen to each of the living cell of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="695">Discharge of carbon-dioxide: Plasma collects carbon-dioxide from the cells and brings it to lungs and integument for removal.</sent>
				<sent id ="696">Transportation of hormone: Blood carries the hormone and supplies it to the places where necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="697">Discharge of waste substances: Collecting the nitrogenous waste substances produced in the body, the plasma assists in removing these outside the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="698">Destruction of germs: The white blood corpuscles help the body to keep fit by destroying the germs if they enter the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="699">Clotting of blood: If any part of the body is injured or if the blood vessel is ruptured, platelets stop the bleeding by clotting the blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="700">Role of blood in metamorphosis: The white blood corpuscles of tadpole help in metamorphosis by eating cells of the tail by phagocytosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="701">Heart: Heart is the most important organ of circulatory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="702">It is a sort of pump in the body of toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="703">This organ is situated in between the lungs and remains covered by the membrane named pericardium.</sent>
				<sent id ="704">The wall of the heart is quite thick and three layered Epicardium, Myocardium, and Endocardium.</sent>
				<sent id ="705">The outer layer of the heart is epicardium.</sent>
				<sent id ="706">The middle layer is myocardium which is made of cardiac muscles and quite thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="707">The inner layer is known as endocardium.</sent>
				<sent id ="708">The heart of a toad is divided into three main chambers: Two auricles and one ventricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="709">Besides there are two sub chambers named sinus venosus and conus arteriosus.</sent>
				<sent id ="710">Auricle: The two upper chambers of the heart are named auricles.</sent>
				<sent id ="711">The two auricles are divided into right and left parts by a septum.</sent>
				<sent id ="712">Right auricle is bigger than the left.</sent>
				<sent id ="713">By a common auriculo ventricular aperture the right and left auricles open into the ventricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="714">Ventricle: In the heart of toad, there is one ventricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="715">The wall of the ventricle is quite thick and towards the inner side there are some longitudinal projections.</sent>
				<sent id ="716">These projections do not allow to mix the oxygenated blood and deoxygenated blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="717">Sinus venosus: The triangular chamber situated on the dorsal side of auricle is named sinus venosus.</sent>
				<sent id ="718">Two anterior vena cavae and one posterior vena cava enter into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="719">Through the aperture named sinu-auricular aperture the sinus venosus opens into the right auricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="720">At the opening of this aperture a pair of one way valves is present.</sent>
				<sent id ="721">Conus arteriosus: Placed obliquely form the right end of the ventricle of the heart up to the left auricle the chamber is named conus arteriosus.</sent>
				<sent id ="722">The two parts of conus arteriosus in front of the auricle named called truncus arteriosus or aorta.</sent>
				<sent id ="723">From here comes out the three main arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="724">There. is a spiral shaped valve inside the conus called spiral valve.</sent>
				<sent id ="725">This valve divides the conus cavity into right and left parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="726">Circulation of blood through the heart: Like all other land animals, the toad has double circuit circulatory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="727">Blood is circulated through successive contraction and relaxation of heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="728">The two anterior vena cavae and the posterior vena cava carry the carbon-dioxide enriched blood into the sinuis venosus.</sent>
				<sent id ="729">This blood enters the right auricle through the sinu-auricular aperture Almost simultaneously the right auricle relaxes and from the lungs oxygen enriched blood enters into the left auricle through the pulmonary vein.</sent>
				<sent id ="730">Right and left auricles simultaneously contracts and from the right and left auricles carbon dioxide and oxygen enriched blood through the common auriculo- ventricular aperture enters the cavity of the ventricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="731">Later, the wall of the ventricle contracts and through the control of the semilunar valve, blood from the ventricle enters the cavity of the conus arteriosus.</sent>
				<sent id ="732">Afterwards oxygenated and carbon-dioxide enriched mixed blood through the right and left aorta circulates respectively through the carotid, systemic and pulmocutaneous arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="733">Capillary: The aorta originates from the heart and then branches into extremely narrow arteries or arterioles.</sent>
				<sent id ="734">These branches further divide many times and form fine networks.</sent>
				<sent id ="735">Later these fine nets joining together form the vein.</sent>
				<sent id ="736">Arteries and veins are connected by those fine networks.</sent>
				<sent id ="737">These nets which connect the arteries and veins are called capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="738">The wall of the capillary is very thin.</sent>
				<sent id ="739">Its wall is formed by one layered thin epithelial cells, as a result, exchange can easily occur between the blood inside its cavity and the food juice and waste substance inside the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="740">Vein: The vessels which carry blood from various organs of the body toward the heart are called veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="741">Veins generally carry deoxygenated or carbondioxide enriched blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="742">But the pulmonary vein carries oxygenated blood from the lung to the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="743">Veins originate from the capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="744">The main difference of artery and vein are given below on the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="745">Blood vessels: The tubules through which the blood is circulated inside the body are called blood carrying vessels or blood vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="746">These vessels are directly or indirectly connected with the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="747">The blood vessels are of three types, Artery, Vein and Capillary.</sent>
				<sent id ="748">Artery: The vessels which carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to various organs of the body are called arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="749">Arterial system: We have known earlier that the blood vessels which supply blood to various organs of the body from the heart are called the arteries Arteries, arterioles and capillaries together form the arterial system.</sent>
				<sent id ="750">Arising from the ventricle the conus arteriosus crosses the heart transversely.</sent>
				<sent id ="751">This sub chamber of the heart is the main or root of the arterial system.</sent>
				<sent id ="752">At the terminal end of the- auricle the conus arteriosus is divided into right and left truncus arteriosus.</sent>
				<sent id ="753">Three arteries originate from the truncus arteriosus.</sent>
				<sent id ="754">These are Carotid arch or carotid artery (in front), Systemic arch (in the middle) and Pulmocutaneous arch (behind).</sent>
				<sent id ="755">Carotid arch : Arising from the truncus arteriosus this artery has gone up being divided into two parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="756">The upper and lower arteries are respectively called external carotid and internal carotid.</sent>
				<sent id ="757">These arteries supply blood to the buccal cavity tongue and outer side of the skull and brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="758">Systemic Arch or Aorta: A systemic aorta arising from the middle of each of the two sides of the truncus arteriosus meet together behind the heart surrounding the two sides of the left and right lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="759">This joined artery is called the dorsal aorta.</sent>
				<sent id ="760">From each systemic aorta arise some branched arteries such as Laryngeal artery, Occipito vertebral artery and Subclavian artery.</sent>
				<sent id ="761">Laryngeal artery: This artery is the first branch of systemic arch.</sent>
				<sent id ="762">Being divided into branches and sub-branches it supplies blood to the vocal sac.</sent>
				<sent id ="763">Occipito-Vertebral artery: This artery originates from the middle of the systemic arch and goes toward the dorsal side.</sent>
				<sent id ="764">The occipito-vertebral artery being divided into branches and sub-branches supplies blood to the pharynx, hind part of brain, back bone and spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="765">Subclavian artery: Subclavian artery arises from the outer side of middle region of the systemic arch.</sent>
				<sent id ="766">This artery supplies blood to the shoulder and fore limb of toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="767">Only from the left systemic aorta, a branched artery comes out and supplies blood to the oesophagus.</sent>
				<sent id ="768">It is called the oesophageal artery.</sent>
				<sent id ="769">From the right systemic aorta no such blood vessel originates.</sent>
				<sent id ="770">Dorsal aorta: Dorsal aorta of toad runs along the mid dorsal line.</sent>
				<sent id ="771">From this aorta comes out branches and sub-branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="772">These branches and sub brancnes supply blood to the alimentary canal and posterior regions of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="773">Following branches come out from dorsal aorta: Coeliaco-mesenteric artery: From very near to the origin of the dorsal aorta, a branched artery comes out and after proceeding to some distance it becomes divided into two portions.</sent>
				<sent id ="774">The first one is called coeliac and the second one mesenteric.</sent>
				<sent id ="775">Coeliac supplies blood to the stomach, liver, pancreas and gall bladder.</sent>
				<sent id ="776">The mesenteric artery supplies blood to the spleen and intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="777">Renal artery: Four to five pairs of arteries enter the kidneys while the dorsal aorta passes through the middle region of the kidneys.</sent>
				<sent id ="778">These arteries are called renal atreries and they supply blood to the kidneys.</sent>
				<sent id ="779">Genital artery: Arising from the branches of the renal arteries some branches enter the genital organ.</sent>
				<sent id ="780">These are named genital arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="781">They supply blood to the reproductive system.</sent>
				<sent id ="782">At the distal end of the trunk the dorsal aorta divides into two branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="783">These are named respectively the right and left iliac.</sent>
				<sent id ="784">From each iliac artery a branched artery comes out.</sent>
				<sent id ="785">This artery supplies blood to the urinary bladder and the ventral side of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="786">Afterwards the iliac artery divides into two portions.</sent>
				<sent id ="787">One femoral supplies blood to the knee and the other sciatic to the other part of the foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="788">Pulmo-cutaneous artery: The posterior most arteries arising from the truncus arteriosus is the pulmo-cutaneous artery.</sent>
				<sent id ="789">One of its branches carries deoxygenated blood directly to the lung.</sent>
				<sent id ="790">It is called the pulmonary artery.</sent>
				<sent id ="791">The other branch carries blood to the integument.</sent>
				<sent id ="792">It is called cutaneous artery.</sent>
				<sent id ="793">Being divided and subdivided these arteries enter the integument.</sent>
				<sent id ="794">Coronary circulation: By continuous contraction the heart pumps blood to various organs of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="795">The heart tissue itself also requires the supply of food and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="796">So, within the heart blood vessels are present.</sent>
				<sent id ="797">The coronary circulatory system is formed by the blood vessels of heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="798">Venous system: The blood vessels which carry the deoxygenated blood from various parts of the body to the heart are called veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="799">Veins originate from the capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="800">The only exception is the pulmonary vein.</sent>
				<sent id ="801">This vein carries oxygenated blood to the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="802">Pulmonary Venous system: One pulmonary vein originates from each lung.</sent>
				<sent id ="803">The two pulmonary veins meet together and form one common pulmonary vein and finally it opens into.</sent>
				<sent id ="804">the left auricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="805">It is an exceptional vein which carries oxygenated blood from the lungs directly to the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="806">B. Systemic Venous system: Systemic venous system is formed by the veins which are originated from the capillaries carrying carbon-dioxide enriched blood to the heart directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="807">Three main vena cavae with their branches form the systemic venous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="808">The three vena cavae open in the three corners of Hepatic Vein: Two veins, named hepatic veins, coming from the two parts of the liver, open into the post caval vein or posterior vena cava.</sent>
				<sent id ="809">Its main function is to collect huge amount of blood from the liver.</sent>
				<sent id ="810">Renal Vein: Four pairs of renal veins coming out from the kidneys and enter the post caval vein.</sent>
				<sent id ="811">To collect blood from the kidney is the function of the renal vein.</sent>
				<sent id ="812">Genital Vein: Some finer veins coming from the testis of the male toad or ovaries of the female toad meet with the two pairs of renal veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="813">These are known as genital veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="814">The function of the genital veins is to collect blood from the reproductive organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="815">Two from anterior part of the body and the other from the posterior part carry deoxygenated blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="816">External Jugular Vein : The two veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the tongue and face are called external jugular veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="817">Innominate Vein: This vein is formed by the combination of two veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="818">It collects deoxygenated blood from the shoulder and corners of the jaw.</sent>
				<sent id ="819">Subclavian Vein: This vein is formed by the combination of two veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="820">Its function is to collect blood from the fore limbs, muscles and integument.</sent>
				<sent id ="821">C. Portal system: There is a type of vein in the body of the toad which originating from the capillaries of any organ instead of reaching the heart directly, again enters into other organs and terminates in the capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="822">These are called portal veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="823">The portal system is formed by the combination of such veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="824">In the body of toad there are two kinds of portal venous system such as, Hepatic Portal System and Renal Portal System.</sent>
				<sent id ="825">Hepatic Portal System: Some veins coming from the stomach, intestine, pancreas, spleen and hind limb meet together and form this system.</sent>
				<sent id ="826">The two pelvic veins from the inner side of femoral vein of each side of the hind limbs of a toad meet together and form the anterior abdominal vein.</sent>
				<sent id ="827">This vein approaches the liver.</sent>
				<sent id ="828">When nearing the liver, veins coming from various parts of the alimentary canal, meets this vein.</sent>
				<sent id ="829">These joined veins are called hepatic portal veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="830">Hepatic portal veins then come in close contact of the liver and proceed transversely.</sent>
				<sent id ="831">The hepatic portal vein then divides into two branches and enters into two parts of the liver.</sent>
				<sent id ="832">There they divide into capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="833">B. Renal Portal System: The femoral vein coming from the hind limb and the sciatic vein coming from the pelvic region meet together and approach towards the kidneys.</sent>
				<sent id ="834">This united vein is called renal portal vein.</sent>
				<sent id ="835">Before entering the kidney some other smaller veins also join.</sent>
				<sent id ="836">These are called dorsolumbar veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="837">Later the renal portal vein enters the kidney and divides into capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="838">Respiratory system: Energy is necessary for different metabolic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="839">Usable energy is produced inside cells by oxidation-reduction of glucose with the help of mitochondria.</sent>
				<sent id ="840">Water, C02, generally ATP (Adenosine Tri Phosphate) and heat are produced by this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="841">Cells can not use heat energy, so it is lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="842">ATP instantly supplies energy when it is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="843">It should be kept in mind that in extensive heat, protoplasm gets paralyzed.</sent>
				<sent id ="844">For these reasons the cellular respiration process takes place step by step with the help of various type of enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="845">This process of energy generation inside cells is known as internal or cellular respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="846">For this oxygen is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="847">The process of collecting oxygen from the environment to every cells of the body is known as external respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="848">In this process body receives oxygen enriched air and expels C02 from the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="849">Cellular respiration process of metabolic activities of all organisms is same, among these the main metabolic path is Kreb's Cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="850">To live in different function of this system is to eliminate excretory materials from the blood collected by the kidneys.</sent>
				<sent id ="851">Cutaneous respiration : This type of respiration takes place through the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="852">The skin of toad is very thin and enriched with blood capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="853">The skin of toad contains a large number of mucus glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="854">Mucus is discharged from these glands; as a result the skin remains moist.</sent>
				<sent id ="855">For this reason, exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide take place through skin easily in the process diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="856">During hibernation the toad respires by this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="857">Bucco-pharyngeal respiration: The membrane of buccal cavity and pharynx of toad is very thin and there are innumerable capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="858">When air enters the buccal cavity oxygen gets into the blood of the capillaries by diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="859">This oxygenated blood flows to different parts of the body through heart and at one stage takes part in the oxidation of food inside the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="860">The carbon dioxide produced as a result of oxidation of food comes out through diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="861">The toad respires this way generaly during rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="862">Pulmonary respiration: Lungs are the main respiratory organs of toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="863">The toad has a pair of lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="864">The lungs are pink coloured hollow sacs.</sent>
				<sent id ="865">Each lung is formed of innumerable smaller chambers like balloons.</sent>
				<sent id ="866">Each of this balloon like chambers is called air sac or alveolus.</sent>
				<sent id ="867">Its wall is enriched with blood vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="868">When the lungs expand the air sacs become, filled with air.</sent>
				<sent id ="869">Exchange of oxygen and Glottis Laryngo-tracheal chamber carbon-dioxide taxes place through the air sacs.</sent>
				<sent id ="870">The fine air tubes with which the air sacs remain connected are called bronchioles.</sent>
				<sent id ="871">The two tubes which are formed one on each side by joining all the bronchioles of each lung are called bronchus:</sent>
				<sent id ="872">Right and left bronchi meet together and form a small trachea.</sent>
				<sent id ="873">Trachea and larynx or voice apparatus together form the laryngo-tracheal chamber.</sent>
				<sent id ="874">The lungs of each side joining with the larynx and glottis open through the nasal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="875">The adult and active living toad respires through pulmonary respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="876">The pulmonary respiration is actually external respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="877">External respiration is again divided into two sub stages such as, Intake of air or inspiration and Release of air or expiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="878">Inspiration: At this stage oxygen along with the air enters the lungs from the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="879">Inspiration occurs in two steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="880">First step: At this time the nasal apertures remain open but the mouth aperture and glottis remain closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="881">Simultaneously the lungs contract and the floor of the buccal cavity are lowered.</sent>
				<sent id ="882">As a result, the volume of the buccal cavity increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="883">The oxygenated air from outside enters the buccal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="884">At this time exchange of oxygen and carbon-dioxide takes place in the blood of capillaries situated in the walls of the buccal cavity and pharynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="885">B. Second step: At this stage the nasal apertures are closed and the floor of the buccal cavity is raised.</sent>
				<sent id ="886">As a result, oxygenated air enters the alveoli of the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="887">By the diffusion process oxygen from the cavities of the alveoli enters the blood capillaries close to the walls of the alveoli.</sent>
				<sent id ="888">In a similar process carbon-dioxide is released.</sent>
				<sent id ="889">Expiration: At this stage from the alveoli carbon-dioxide comes out of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="890">Expiration, occurs in two steps: A. First step: At the first step of expiration the two lungs contract, external nasal apertures and mouth aperture remain closed and the floor of the buccal cavity is lowered.</sent>
				<sent id ="891">As a result volume of the buccal cavity increases and carbon- di-oxide mixed air returns to the buccal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="892">B. Second step: The floor of the buccal cavity is raised.</sent>
				<sent id ="893">The volume of buccal cavity reduce.</sent>
				<sent id ="894">At this time the glottis remains closed and the nasal apertures remain open.</sent>
				<sent id ="895">As a result through nasal apertures the carbon-dioxide enriched air comes outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="896">Internal respiration: We have learnt earlier that internal respiratior basically cell respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="897">In this process exchange of oxygen and carbon-dioxide takes place in the blood of capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="898">At the cellular level energy produced through oxidation of glucose.</sent>
				<sent id ="899">Transportation of oxygen: As a result of the entrance of air inside the lungs the air of the lungs gets oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="900">The moist vapor that remains in this reaches to the interior part of the alveoli.</sent>
				<sent id ="901">Oxygen dissolves in watery drops a result the volume and pressure of oxygen increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="902">At this time the volt and pressure of oxygen in the blood of capillaries on the body walls of alvi remain less.</sent>
				<sent id ="903">As a result oxygen enters the blood through diffusion process.</sent>
				<sent id ="904">this time oxygen combines with the haemoglobin of blood, to form compound known as oxyhaemnglobin.</sent>
				<sent id ="905">This process occurs in the mitochondria of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="906">The enting process is completed by certain steps and in the presence of some specific enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="907">At this stage oxidation occurs in the presence of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="908">As a reesult carbon-dioxide, water and energy are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="909">Transportation of carbon dioxide: The transportation of carbon-dioxide exactly the reverse process of oxygen transportation.</sent>
				<sent id ="910">That is, carbon-dioxide enriched blood is transported from the body cells towards the respiratory organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="911">In the form of carbonic acid: A part of the carbon dioxide is mixed with the water and is transported as carbonic acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="912">In the form of bi-carbonate: Blood plasma carries carbon dioxide in the form of sodium bi-carbonate, and the red blood corpuscles in the form of potassium bi-carbonate.</sent>
				<sent id ="913">In the form of carbamino compound: Blood plasma and red blood corpuscles transport carbon-dioxide in the form of carbamino compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="914">Gill respiration : The larva of toad is called tadpole.</sent>
				<sent id ="915">Tadpole lives in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="916">They have no lungs, so they respire with the help of gills like the fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="917">In each gill there are numerous blood vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="918">The dissolved oxygen of water comes in contact with the smaller blood vessels of the gills and exchangcs oxygen and carbon-dioxide easily occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="919">Nervous system: This nervous system of Toad requires a central coordination arrangement to conduct different organs efficiently.</sent>
				<sent id ="920">The nervous system an endocrine or hormone system conducts controls and coordinates all the activities of the body of toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="921">The system through which the animal response to stimuli, maintains the connections of various organs, coordinates various activities and maintains relations with the environment is called the nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="922">The nervous system of toad, can be divided into three main divisions based on the origin, structure, distribution and functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="923">Central nervous system: The central nervous system consists of the brain and the spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="924">Peripheral nervous system: The periphery or lateral nerve originates from the lateral sides of the brain and spinal cord formed of ten pairs of cranial nerves and ten pairs of spinal nerves.</sent>
				<sent id ="925">Autonomic nervous system: In the body of animals there is a kind of nerve which is not directly- controlled by the central nervous system but control independently the activities of various organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="926">The autonomic Nervous system is formed with these nerves.</sent>
				<sent id ="927">This system is formed with a pair of sympathetic nerve cord with their branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="928">Description of central nervous system: The central nervous system of toad formed of the brain and the spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="929">The part of the central nervous system which is enclosed within the skull, is called the brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="930">The brain of toad is elongated.</sent>
				<sent id ="931">The middle part is thick and two ends a n-arrow and bi-laterally syrumetrical.</sent>
				<sent id ="932">The brain is covered by two membrane The outer thick, hard, translucent and blood vessels enriched membrane called dura matter and the inner thin membrane is called pia matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="933">These two membranes together are called meninges.</sent>
				<sent id ="934">Meninges cover the brain and spinal cord protects them.</sent>
				<sent id ="935">The brain is formed of neurons or nerve cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="936">One neuron is joined with the other neuron by the synapse and form the nervous tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="937">The outer part of the brain is formed of grey matter i.e. nerve cell bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="938">The white part towards its inner side is called the white matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="939">This part is formed of nerve fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="940">The brain and spinal cord of vertebrate animals are not solid.</sent>
				<sent id ="941">In its inner Part there are hollow cavities or brain ventricles.</sent>
				<sent id ="942">The brain cavities remain filled up with a kind of fluid.</sent>
				<sent id ="943">Structure of brain: The brain of toad is mainly divided into three parts, such as: fore brain, mid brain and hind brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="944">Olfactory lobe: It is a pair of out growth arising from the telencephalon of the fore brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="945">These growths are called olfactory lobes.</sent>
				<sent id ="946">It is the centre of smell of toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="947">Cerebral hemisphere: Behind the olfactory lobes there are two cerebral hemispheres.</sent>
				<sent id ="948">Their function is to move the muscles and control intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="949">B. Diencephalon: The comparatively small region situated behind telencephalon is the diencephalon.</sent>
				<sent id ="950">Its sides are swollen and there is a narrow raised portion on the dorsal side.</sent>
				<sent id ="951">Hormone is secreted from the pituitary body situated here.</sent>
				<sent id ="952">This hormone is helpful in metabolic processes, growth, attaining maturity and nutrition of reproductive cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="953">Mid brain: The midbrain is situated in between the fore and hind brains This region is comparatively wider than the other regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="954">A spherical region present on the two sides of this part.</sent>
				<sent id ="955">It is called optic lobe.</sent>
				<sent id ="956">Midbrain is the centre for vision of the toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="957">Hind Brain : The hind brain occupies the posterior position of the mid brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="958">This part extends up to the root of the spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="959">This region of the brain is divided into two parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="960">Metencephalon and Myelencephalon or medulla oblongata.</sent>
				<sent id ="961">a. Metencephalon : The narrow part just behind the optic lobes is the metencephalon.</sent>
				<sent id ="962">This part controls the voluntray movement of toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="963">Myelencephalon or Medulla oblongata : It is the posterior most part of brain which gradually narrows and meets with the spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="964">There is an aperture behind the cranium.</sent>
				<sent id ="965">The medulla oblongata comes out through this aperture and meets the spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="966">Medulla is an important region of brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="967">It assists in physiological functions including capturing of prey, respiration, producing sound; taking food by tongue, heart beat etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="968">Ten pairs of nerves coming out from the brain of the toad extend up to the peri.</sent>
				<sent id ="969">pheral region of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="970">These nerves are called cranial nerves.</sent>
				<sent id ="971">Some of these nerves conduct stimuli from outside the body to the inner side, some carry directives to some definite organs from inner side of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="972">Again some carry out both the orders and the stimuli.</sent>
				<sent id ="973">According to the nature of work the peripheral nerves can be divided into three divisions, such as Sensory nerves, Motor nerves and Mixed nerves.</sent>
				<sent id ="974">A. Sensory nerves: The nerves which carry stimuli from the peripheral organs of the body to the central nervous system are called sensory nerves.</sent>
				<sent id ="975">For example, the optic nerve of the eye, the olfactory nerve of the nasal aperture and auditory nerves of the internal ear.</sent>
				<sent id ="976">The cranial nerves of toad originating from definite locations of the brain come out through the apertures of the skull and communicate with the various parts of the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="977">The origin, passage, distribution and functions of the ten pairs of nerves are given in the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="978">Spinal cord: Spinal cord is the extension of medulla oblongata through the neural canal of vertebrae it extends up to the urostyle.</sent>
				<sent id ="979">Like the brain, the spinal cord is also covered by meninges.</sent>
				<sent id ="980">Towards the inner side of the spinal-cord remains the grey matter and towards the outer side there is white matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="981">From the spinal cord of toad comes out ten pairs of nerves.</sent>
				<sent id ="982">It contains the nerves originating from the spinal cord and exchange information and directions of the brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="983">It assist to perform instant work.</sent>
				<sent id ="984">Excretory system : During metabolism in the body of toad various types of nitrogenous excretory products are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="985">These substances are of no use to the body, but may cause harm if remain inside the body for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="986">So it is essential to remove these nitrogenous waste products from the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="987">The process through which nitrogen enriched excretory products, produced due metabolism is eliminated from the body is called excretion.</sent>
				<sent id ="988">Kidney is the main organ of excretion.</sent>
				<sent id ="989">Kidney: The two kidneys of toad are located in the abdominal region on the both sides of the backbone.</sent>
				<sent id ="990">The kidneys are elongated, deep red coloured with the anterior and posterior ends slightly pointed.</sent>
				<sent id ="991">The outer part of the kidney convex and wavy and the inner side smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="992">Each kidney remains covered by a thin is membrane called peritoneum.</sent>
				<sent id ="993">To assist in the removal of nitrogenous waste products and other unwanted materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="994">To control the balance of water in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="995">Each kidney of toad is formed by the combination of numerous fine coiled renal tubules.</sent>
				<sent id ="996">In each kidney there are about two thousand such coiled microscopic tubules.</sent>
				<sent id ="997">These tubules are called nephrons.</sent>
				<sent id ="998">Each nephron is divided into two portions.</sent>
				<sent id ="999">a. Malpigbhian organ: It is the anterior rounded part of the nephron.</sent>
				<sent id ="1000">This organ is again formed of two parts, such as: Bowman's capsule and Glomerulus.</sent>
				<sent id ="1001">At the free end of each renal tubule there is a closed cup-like part called the Bowman's capsule.</sent>
				<sent id ="1002">The wall of this cup is formed of an epithelial cell layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="1003">branch of the renal artery enters the cavity of the Bowsman's capsule.</sent>
				<sent id ="1004">This branch of the artery is known as afferent artery.</sent>
				<sent id ="1005">Inside the cavity of Bowmans capsule the afferent artery form a cluster of blood capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="1006">This cluster is called glomerulus.</sent>
				<sent id ="1007">Joining together these blood capillaries form an efferent artery.</sent>
				<sent id ="1008">Glornmerulus and Bowman's capsule together are called Malpighian body or Malpighian Organ.</sent>
				<sent id ="1009">This part of the kidney is situated in the cortex or wall of the kidney.</sent>
				<sent id ="1010">Renal tubules: The duct like tubule behind the Bowman's capsule is called the renal tubule.</sent>
				<sent id ="1011">This tubule being turned into coil opens into the collecting duct.</sent>
				<sent id ="1012">The collecting duct ultimately opens into the ureter.</sent>
				<sent id ="1013">The tubule is surrounded by the branches of efferent artery.</sent>
				<sent id ="1014">Ureter: From the outer end of each kidney a whitish elastic duct originates and goes towards the posterior part of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="1015">This duct is known as ureter.</sent>
				<sent id ="1016">The ureters of the two sides meet and form a common renal duct and opens into the cloaca through a common renal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="1017">Urinary bladder: The thin, incompletely divided sac situated on the ventral side of the cloaca is called urinary bladder.</sent>
				<sent id ="1018">Urine is stored here temporarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="1019">The urinary bladder opens into the cloaca through an aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="1020">Cloaca: The cloaca is situated behind the rectum.</sent>
				<sent id ="1021">It is a narrow chamber.</sent>
				<sent id ="1022">The urinary bladder opens into the cloaca through the renal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="1023">Through it urine passes towards the cloacal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="1024">Cloacal aperture: The cloacal aperture is situated at the posterior end of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="1025">Through this aperture stool, urine, sperms and ova are discharged outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="1026">Amino acid is produced due to digestion of protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="1027">This amino acid is used to perform various Biological functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="1028">Excess and unused amino acid under the influence of enzyme named de-aminase takes part in de-amination process.</sent>
				<sent id ="1029">In this de-amination process amine reacts with water to produce ammonia, thus ammonia is separated from the amino acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="1030">Ammonia is a harmful substance for the body of the toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="1031">Along with blood, ammonia reaches the liver.</sent>
				<sent id ="1032">There under the influence of an enzyme, urginase, ammonia by reacting with carbon dioxide produces urea and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="1033">You have learnt earlier that the afferent branches of the renal arteries dividing into numerous fine blood capillaries form the glomerulus.</sent>
				<sent id ="1034">Through these afferent branches blood enters the glomerulus and passes through the capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="1035">Due to high blood pressure, urea, glucose, and other soluble substances of blood enter the renal tubules crossing by the delicate walls of glomerulus and Bowman's capsule.</sent>
				<sent id ="1036">Refined blood leaves the Bowman's capsule through different arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="1037">By the cells of the walls of renal ducts water, glucose, sodium chloride and other substances are absorbed from the solution inside these ducts.</sent>
				<sent id ="1038">Residues are discharged with urea from the body by uretor.</sent>
				<sent id ="1039">Reproduction is a physiological function.</sent>
				<sent id ="1040">It is necessary for the continuance of species, so that it does not become extinct.</sent>
				<sent id ="1041">This process can be accomplished asexually or by sexual process with the help of the opposite sex of the same species.</sent>
				<sent id ="1042">The offsprings produced as a result of reproduction get mature and the process is repeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="1043">In this way the continuance of a species is maintained with the help of the opposite sex of the same species.</sent>
				<sent id ="1044">Those organs which take direct part in reproduction are called reproductive organs and the system is known as reproductive system.</sent>
				<sent id ="1045">Toad is a unisexual animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="1046">Male reproductive organs are present in the male toad and female reproductive organs are present in the female toads.</sent>
				<sent id ="1047">Below is a description of the male and female reproaductive systems.</sent>
				<sent id ="1048">Testis: In the male toad on the dorsal side of the abdominal cavity two elongated, slightly yellowish testes are present.</sent>
				<sent id ="1049">These are attached with the kidneys.</sent>
				<sent id ="1050">Sometimes they are divided in pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="1051">The testis remains attached with the kidney by a thin membrane called mesorchium.</sent>
				<sent id ="1052">Each testis is formed of innumerable seminiferous tubules.</sent>
				<sent id ="1053">Sperms are produced from the inner walls of these tubules.</sent>
				<sent id ="1054">Vas efferens: Some smaller ducts coming out from the testis remain directly connectd with the collecting ducts of the kidney:</sent>
				<sent id ="1055">These fine ducts are called vasa efferentia.</sent>
				<sent id ="1056">Sperms from the testis enter the urino-genital duct through these ducts.</sent>
				<sent id ="1057">Vas deferens or Uriono-genital duct: A duct comes out from the convex surface of each kidney.</sent>
				<sent id ="1058">It is the sperm duct or vas-deferens of male toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="1059">Urine and sperms both flow through this tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="1060">So it is also called urino genital duct.</sent>
				<sent id ="1061">Each duct becoming dilated forms the seminal vesicle below the kidney.</sent>
				<sent id ="1062">Cloaca: Behind the rectum the common chamber where the rectum and urino-genital duct opens is called cloaca.</sent>
				<sent id ="1063">Through this sperms can pass towards the cloacal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="1064">Cloaca aperture: The aperture situated at the extreme posterior end of the body is called cloacal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="1065">Sperms are discharged outside through this aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="1066">Bidders's organ: This red coloured organ is situated at the anterior part of each testis.</sent>
				<sent id ="1067">It is an inactive organ in male toad and in female toad it remains in immature condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="1068">It vanishes in mature female toad but persists in mature male toad with small size.</sent>
				<sent id ="1069">Its function is not yet known.</sent>
				<sent id ="1070">Fat Body: Finger like yellow coloured organs are situated at the anterior ends of the kidneys of both the male and female toads.</sent>
				<sent id ="1071">Fatty substance remains stored in it and hence it is called fat body.</sent>
				<sent id ="1072">The reproductive cells get nourishment from this fat body and they also provide nourishment to the toad during hibernation.</sent>
				<sent id ="1073">Ovary: The female toad has two ovaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="1074">These are situated on the dorsal side of abdominal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="1075">They have no definite shape; they grow during the breeding season.</sent>
				<sent id ="1076">Within the ovaries innumerable ova are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="1077">Matured ova are black and spherical.</sent>
				<sent id ="1078">At this time the two ovaries burst and the ova become scattered.</sent>
				<sent id ="1079">Oviduct: The toad has a pair of narrow, whitish, coiled oviducts.</sent>
				<sent id ="1080">At the anterior end of each duct there is a funnel and the posterior end widens to form the uterus.</sent>
				<sent id ="1081">The ova enter the oviducts through the funnels.</sent>
				<sent id ="1082">Uterrus : The posterior part of each oviduct becomes dilated to form a sac like structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="1083">This is uterus, where the ova remain stored temporarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="1084">Later the two uteri meet together and open into the cloaca.</sent>
				<sent id ="1085">The urine and ova of the female toad pass into the cloaca through two separate ducts.</sent>
				<sent id ="1086">Later through cloacal aperture they are discharged from the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="1087">The life cycle of toad is very complex.</sent>
				<sent id ="1088">Rainy season is the breeding season of toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="1089">At this time they become very active.</sent>
				<sent id ="1090">The male toad croaks to attract the female toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="1091">Sexual union occurs between a matured male and a female toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="1092">This sexual union is called mating.</sent>
				<sent id ="1093">During mating the female toad releases eggs in shallow water.</sent>
				<sent id ="1094">The male toad simultaneously releases sperm over the ova.</sent>
				<sent id ="1095">Zygote is formed by the union of sperm and ovum.</sent>
				<sent id ="1096">The zygote is then transformed into an embryo and after passing through various stages, it becomes a mature toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="1097">Egg: The ovum is often called an egg.</sent>
				<sent id ="1098">The eggs appear as mustard-grain and can be seen in naked eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="1099">The shape of the ovum of toad is rounded, one end is blackish and the other end is whitish in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="1100">At the blackish end of ovum remains the cytoplasm and nucleus and in the whitish end portion remains the yolk.</sent>
				<sent id ="1101">The amount of yolk in the ovum of the toad is plenty.</sent>
				<sent id ="1102">Each ovum remains covered by a thin membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="1103">The egg having the yolk side is called a Telolecithal egg.</sent>
				<sent id ="1104">Sperm: The sperm of toad cannot be seen with naked eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="1105">The sperm cell is divided into three parts, such as: Head part, middle part or neck, Tail part.</sent>
				<sent id ="1106">Head: The head of the sperm is oval shaped Inside it lies the nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="1107">Where remains the haploid number of chromosomes.</sent>
				<sent id ="1108">B. Neck or Middle part: The middle small portion between the head and tail of sperm is the neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="1109">In this part of the cell remain centrosome and mitochondria.</sent>
				<sent id ="1110">C. Tail: The narrow, elongated and motile part of the sperm is called tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="1111">With the help of this narrow tail the sperm swims in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="1112">After the formation of ova in the ovaries of female toad, they pass towards the outer side through the oviducts.</sent>
				<sent id ="1113">At this time the ova are surrounded or covered by albumin and take the shape of transparent ribbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="1114">Inside this ribbon like part ova or eggs are arranged one after another in a row.</sent>
				<sent id ="1115">In contact with water this ribbon like part swells and floats on water with eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="1116">In this condition union of sperm and ovum takes place.</sent>
				<sent id ="1117">This union of sperm and ovum is called fertilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="1118">The process of fertilization takes place in water outside the body of toad:</sent>
				<sent id ="1119">This type of fertilization is called external fertilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="1120">Each sperm has a tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="1121">When the sperm meets an ovum its tail is dropped.</sent>
				<sent id ="1122">Zygote is formed when the ovum is fertilized by the sperm.</sent>
				<sent id ="1123">Within a few hour of fertilization, the division of zygote begins.</sent>
				<sent id ="1124">Zygote being divided by mitosis process forms an embryo.</sent>
				<sent id ="1125">In this cell division at first a cell divide into two.</sent>
				<sent id ="1126">Then from two, the number of cells becomes four.</sent>
				<sent id ="1127">Soon from four the number increases in a rate of eight, sixteen, thirty two, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="1128">This change of the zygote is called embryonic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="1129">At this time the embryo passing through many stages or steps becomes transformed into a three-layered embryo.</sent>
				<sent id ="1130">These three layers are Ectoderm, Mesoderm and Endoderm.</sent>
				<sent id ="1131">Ectorderm: The outer layer of the embryo is called ectoderm.</sent>
				<sent id ="1132">This forms the integument, nervous system and sensory organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="1133">Mesoderm: The middle layer of the embryo is mesoderm.</sent>
				<sent id ="1134">This layer forms connective tissue, Vascular tissue, muscular tissue, sex organs etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="1135">Endoderm: The innermost layer of the embryo is endoderm.</sent>
				<sent id ="1136">It forms the epithelium of the alimentary canal, liver, lungs, pancreas and other organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="1137">Within two weeks of the fertilization the formation of embryo from zygote is completed and it comes out breaking the covering of the egg.</sent>
				<sent id ="1138">This stage is called larva or tadpole.</sent>
				<sent id ="1139">The tadpole looks like a fish fry.</sent>
				<sent id ="1140">The body of a tadpole is divided into three parts, a rounded head, a small narrow trunk and a flat tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="1141">On the ventral side of tadpole and at the junction of the trunk and the tail the cloacal aperture is located.</sent>
				<sent id ="1142">Initially the tadpole does not have mouth aperture, limbs and eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="1143">Instead of mouth aperture there remains a sucker on one side of the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="1144">With the help of this sucker the tadpole keeps itself attached to algae or any other aquatic plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="1145">At this time the tadpole does not takes any food; lives by taking nutrition from the yolk of the egg.</sent>
				<sent id ="1146">There remain three pairs of external gills on two sides of the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="1147">with the help of gills the tadpole performs respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="1148">In later stage mouth is formed at.the side of the sucker.</sent>
				<sent id ="1149">Fins are formed on the upper side of the tail in the form of folds.</sent>
				<sent id ="1150">External gills disappear and internal gills are formed inside the body:</sent>
				<sent id ="1151">Coiled alimentary canal is seen indistinctly from the upper side of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="1152">In the mean time strong jaws are formed in the anterior part of the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="1153">The gills of tadpole remain covered by an operculum like the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="1154">Oxygen dissolved in water, comes in contact with gills and respiration is performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="1155">After some days these gills disappear within the body and lungs are formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="1156">In the meantime, first the hind limbs and then the fore limbs are formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="1157">The tail gradually disappears within the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="1158">The alimentry canal is small in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="1159">The sharp parts of the jaws of the mouth are dropped and the mouth aperture widens.</sent>
				<sent id ="1160">At this time the tadpole is transformed into a tiny toad and leaves water.</sent>
				<sent id ="1161">By eating small worms and insects it gradually grows larger.</sent>
				<sent id ="1162">At one time the tail of the toad completely disappears.</sent>
				<sent id ="1163">The organs of the toad after being well formed, the baby toad is transformed into a full grown toad When the life cycle of the toad is observed it is seen that there are many physical differences between a tadpole and a baby toad.</sent>
				<sent id ="1164">At the time when the tadpole gradually transforms into the future toad, it passes through such intermediate stages with which the body-shape of a full grown toad has no similarity.</sent>
				<sent id ="1165">Such changes of the life cycle of the toad are called metamorphosis The metamorphosis of the toad is controlled by the hormone named Thyroxin.</sent>
				<sent id ="1166">Green plants manufacture carbohydrate foods by the process of Photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="1167">These foods again break down to water, CO2 and energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="1168">That energy is used in plants growth and other process.</sent>
				<sent id ="1169">But only Carbohydrate is not sufficient for healthy growth, physical development and regenerations of the plant body.</sent>
				<sent id ="1170">Beside these, for normal completion of other physiological functions plant absorb different kinds of inorganic minerals from nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="1171">The process of absorption of necessary minerals for healthy growth of the body; physical development and regeneration is called Nutrition or mineral nutrition of plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="1172">Several nutritionists proved that, there are 16 inorganic elements necessary for normal growth and development of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="1173">They are so important that they are called essential elements.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
