<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-biology-13</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.846</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">290</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4364</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1609</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t28">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Natural Diversity of Bangladesh - Distribution of Plants and Animals Environmental characteristics: The soil of this region is made of alluvium and is very fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">In the rainy season many aquatic plants, by death and decomposition, converted to organic manure and thus make the soil more fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Plants: Among the aquatic plants Nymphaea noucheli (Shapla) [our national flower], Lotus, Ipomea , Halencha, Shola, Vallisnaria (Pat Shaola) Urticularia, Azolla, Lamna, Wolfia (smallest flowering plant) Eichornea (Kachuripana), Pistea (Topapana), Trapa (Paniphal), Polygonum (Panimarich), and various types of grasses are the major plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">In this region there grows plenty of fresh water algae among which phytoplankton, a primary producer, serve as the food of fish and other aquatic animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In uncultivated lands, Kalkesunda (Cassia), Shetodron (Leucas) Raktodron, Dhutura ( Datura), Hatishur ( Heliotropium), Mikania, Bhat ( Clerodendron), Muktajhuri (Acalypha), Kachu ( Colocasia), Khagra ( Xanthiun) etc. are the major plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Around the houses betel nut, coconut, mango, jackfruit, banana, litchi, tamarind, plum, jamboline, bamboos, Barun, Pipul, Akondo (Calotropis) etc. are the main plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Among the crop plants paddy (Oryza sativa), deep-water rice (a variety of paddy grown in deep water), and jute (Chorchorus sp.) are the main.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Animals: In this region there live different species of small and large animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Among them, toad, frog, lizard, tortoise, different varieties of snakes, mongoose, sparrow, Shalik, Moyena, parrot, crow, kite, vulture, buffalo, cow, goat, sheep etc. are notable.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Besides these, in the rivers of this region there is fresh water dolphin (Shushuk) and different species of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">In ponds and other water reservoirs there are many species of small and big fishes, aquatic snakes, tortoise etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">These are formed by accumulation of water in the low-lying areas on the earth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Except rivers, ponds, and lakes the other marshy lands of Bangladesh may be classified into three categories: Haor, Baor and Beel.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">A. Haor: Due to natural movements of the earth, beneath the earth crust, some times changes take place on the earth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">As a result earth Natural Diversity of Bangladesh-Distribution of Plants and Animals surface become deepen to form a basin like area where plenty of water is reserved.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">This vast water reservoir is called Haor.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The greater Sylhet district of Bangladesh is known as Haor Basin region.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The eastern region of Kishorganj and Netrokona are also included in Haor region.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Some worth-mentioning Haors are Hakaluki, Tanguar Hayil, Dubriar Haor etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">B. Baor : The horseshoe shaped water reservoirs, which are formed naturally due to the change of river route, are known as Baor.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">There are several Baors in the southwestern region of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Among these some big ones are: Baro Baisdia. Joidia etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Beel : Water reservoir that originates by the side of the old river route is called Beel.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">There are many Beels in the greater districts of Bangladesh namely Rajshahi, Rangpur, Bogra, Pabna, Faridpur and Khulna.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Among these, Chalan Beel, Patrail, Manda, Parul, Raktodoha.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Dakatia, Gopalgonj Bakhra are prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Almost throughout the year water remains present in the Haors, Baors and Beels, but in winter water become less and then paddy is cultivatad there.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">In some places there remain at least some water throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Plants : Usually common aquatic plants are grown in aquatic environments of the Haor, Baors and Beels.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Besides this, there grow specially reeds (Nalkhagra), Ikar, Hijal, Karoch, Gota, Gamar, Barun and wild roses.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Thes are bushes of Hijal and Nalkhagra.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Animals : In these shallow water bodies there are different species of fishes like Lata, Meni, Baim etc. and various kinds of animals like toad, frog, tortoise, water snakes, heron, crane, Kadakhocha Pakhi, kite, eagle and Pankouri etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Pleistocene uplands : During Pleistocene era (25,000 years ago), many regions of the world became raised and formed uplands.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">These regions are called Pleistocene uplands.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">In Bangladesh, Barendro region, Modhupur Gorh and Lalmai hills are parts of these uplands.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The environmental characteristics and flora and fauna of these regions are almost similar.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">But the large area of Shaalbon is noticeable.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Barendro : The region occupies the north-western region of Bangladesh including Chapainowabganj, Rajshahi, Nowgaon, Jaipurhat and part of Dinajpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The total area of this region is about 9300 square kilometers and situated at about 6 -12 meters (20-40 feet) above sea level.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">In some area of this region the soil is terraced in steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Modhupur Gorh : Modhupur Gorh includes Modhupur of Tangail district, Jamalpur, Gazipur, and parts of Dhaka and Narsingdi district.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Total area of this land is about 4100-square kilometers and situated at about 15 -30 meters (50 - 100 feet) above the sea level.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Long ago there was a continuous Shaalbon of 160 kilometers long from Jamalpur to Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Now this forest is scattered into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Though Chandra, Rajendrapur or Bhawal is treated as separate forests but they are actually parts of Modhupur forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Brahmmaputra and Shitalakshma rivers separate the eastern part of this forest from the main uplands.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Egaro Sindhur, Shibpur, and Monohardi thana and part of Sonargaon are part of this separated region.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Lalmai Hills : Lalmai Hills is situated near Comilla town and is about 14.5 kilometers (9 miles) in length and 0.8 -2.4 kilometers (0.5 -1.5 miles) in breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">This is also a part of Pleistocene uplands.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">This hill is about 6 -12 meter (20 -40 feet) in height.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Its highest pick is more than 46 meters (150 feet).</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Probably the name Moinamoti Shaalbon Bihar originates because of the presence of Shaal forest here.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Environmental Characteristics : Soil of Pleistocene uplands is unproductive, acidic and reddish or somewhere grayish.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Rainfall is insufficient, less than 2000 m.m. in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Climate is to some extent extreme, high temperature in summer, dry winter, less humidity in air; these are the characteristics of this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">This climatic condition has contributed in creating deciduous forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">In Modhupur region forests develop in elevated land (Chala) and places in between raised lands (Chala) are known as BAID (Low land).</sent>
				<sent id ="58">In low land Areas paddy Is cultivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Major Plants : One of the characters of this upland is the presence of Shaal forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Shaal forest is said to be a deciduous forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Because in winter all the trees of this forest become leafless.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">In some places Shaalbon is also known as GAJARI GORH.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">97% tree of this forest is Shaal tree (Shorea robusta) from which the name Shaal forest originates.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Among other trees, there are wild Chalta, Gachhi Gajari, Koroi, Kumvi, Gamari, Palash, Vela, Bahera, Haritaki etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Almost all of these are deciduous plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Many jackfruit trees have been cultivated in Modhupur and Bhawal region.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Shaalbon has reduced in large scale in Barendro region.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">There are still some Shaalbon in Phulpur and Ghoraghat of Dinajpur and Dhamarhat of Nowgaon.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The Shaalbon of Dhamarhat is a continuous part of Indian Shaalbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">In Chapainowabganj and Godagari of Rajshahi, Shaalbon is almost nil.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Besides a very few Shaal trees, some Pora- Shaal, Koroi, and Sinuri etc. are present here.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Major Animals : Monkeys, squirrel, jackals Langoor, several species of snakes, mongoose and different kinds of birds are the major animals of Barendra region.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In Modhupur region the major animals are monkeys, entellus, jackals, lizards, woodpeckers, owls, kites, mongoose, water monitor, squirrels and tree frogs.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Once leopard and deer were abundant here but now they are very scanty.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Tertiary hilly region : The hilly regions of north-eastern and south-eastern part of Bangladesh have originated during the elevation of the Himalayans in Tertiary period They are similar to Lusai of Asam and Arakan hills of Mayanmar.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">These hills are situated in greater Sylhet, Chittagong and Chittagong Hill Tracts.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Hills of Sylhet : In Moulavibazar, Habiganj and north-eastern part of Sylhet there are hills or hillock covered with grassland and trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Usually these are situated at 30 -60 meter (100 -200 feet) above sea level.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In these hills tea cultivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The highest hill of Sylhet region is the Patharia Hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Its height is 240 meters (800 feet).</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Hills of Chittagong : In the northern region of Chittagong there are some small hills situated parallal with the seashore and are extended north to south.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The hills of Sitakunda and Chandranath are one of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The highest peak here is 350 meters (1155 feet).</sent>
				<sent id ="85">In the south there are some small hilly range in between Cox's Bazar and Teknaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Hills of Chittagong Hill Tracts: There are many hills in the hilly district of Rangamati, Bandarban and Khagrachhari.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">These hills are extended from north to south.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Normal height of these hills is not more than 600 meters (200 feet).</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Among the hills of Chittagong Hill Tracts the highest one is Tajingdong (Bijoy), which is 1231 meters (4039 feet) in height.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Other high hills are: Moudok Muyal -about 1000 meters (3292 feet), Reng Tiyang -about 920 meters (3141 feet), and Pyramid hill -about 920 meter (3016 feet).</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Environmental Characteristics: Hilly lands are elevated with heavy rainfall and it rains almost throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Air in this region is saturated with humidity.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">In Sylhet region the amount of rainfall is more than 5000 m.m. in a year, in Chittagong -about 3000 m.m. and in Chittagong Hill Tracts to 2500- 2750 m.m.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Plants: Presence of forest is the characteristic features of hilly region.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">In these forests there grow various types of plants - climbers, bushes, bamboos, canes and grasses.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Formerly this region was covered with dense forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">But due to overgrowth of population and collection of forest resources in excess these forests are decreasing gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Management of forests of Bangladesh is of two types.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Reserve forest under the management of the forest department of Bangladesh and Unclassed State forest under the management of Local district administration.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The second type of forests has suffered much loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Most of these areas are now barren.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The management of forest department causes the damage of most of the forest area.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">In natural forest there grow many species of plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">But for the production of more valuable timber, in many regions the naturally growing plants are being cut down and many trees of a single species have been planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">This is called monoculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">This type of forest is called Plantation Forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In these forests valuable species of plant like Teak, Gamar, Rubber etc are planted, thus the diversity of plants in this forest is much lesser.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">For Predominance of certain species, forests are given various names.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Such as in cane forest mainly canes are grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">In the similar way in bamboo forest various types of bamboos are grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Teak and Gamar are already 267Natural Diversity of Bangladesh-Distribution of Plants and Animals mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Besides. in many treeless hills there grows different types of grasses, particularly Chhon grass (Imperata cylindrica) are grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">These are called Chhon forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Tropical Evergreen Forest: In these forests the large trees do not shed their leaves in winter as the Shaal forest do.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Thus their canopy or tops of the trees look evergreen throughout the whole year.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Mixed Evergreen Forest: Some of the plants of this forest are evergreen and some species shed their leaves in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">As there is a mixer of evergreen and deciduous plants this forest is known as mixed evergreen forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Height of the trees of this forest is not equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">As a result their tops are seems to be arranged in 2/3 strata or layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The tallest trees are up to 60 meters (200 feet) in height, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Garjan, Chapalish, Civit.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">They are said to be the first layer trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Trees having a medium height make the second layer, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Chikrashi and Gamar.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Trees of the third layer are shorter than those of the second layer, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Jarul, Uriaam (Mangifera longipes) etc. Forest region of Sylhet: They are a combination of tropical evergreen and mixed evergreen type.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Among the first layer trees, Chapalish, Deowa, Chamrata, Aamra, Padak and Banchalta are prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">In the second layer Bhuikadam, Champa, Panidumur, Bandarhola, Chikrashi and Gamar are prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Among bamboos Muli, Khang, Parua are notable.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">There are some Garjan in Patharia region.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">In some areas some Teak, Ironwood, Malacca and Koroi have been planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">A large number of orchids, various types of Colocasia, ferns and epiphytes are found to grow in the forests of Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Canes also grow in Sylhet forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Forests of Chittagong region are evergreen and mixed evergreen type.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Here among the first layer plants Garjan, Chapalish, Chandul, Koroi, and Coconut are prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Second layer is comprised of mainly Chikrashi, Jarul, Bahera, Toon, Dhenkijaam etc. Bamboos and Chhon grow in open forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Forest of Chittagong Hill Tracts comprises of evergreen, mixed evergreen, deciduous, canes and bamboo forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The major plants of this region are Civit, Garjan, Chandul, Nageshwar, Batna, Taali, Pitraj, Punail, Koroi, Gamar, Vadi Bandarhola, Chapalish, Udal, Aamra, Shilvadi, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Among these Gamar Koroi Vadi, Shilvadi, Udal and Aamra are deciduous tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Bamboo and Chhon forests are in abundance in this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Canes are also available.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">There are many Teak but they are all planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Sylhet Region: Among the mammals monkey and entellus (Honuman) are prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Besides these there are various kinds of birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Chittagong Region: Notable animals of this region are elephant, leopard, deer, gibbon and different kinds of snakes and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Chittagong Hill Tracts: Amphibians like tree frog, toad, python, cobra, monitor lizard are found in the forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Among mammals big rat, bat, monkey, entellus, leopard, gibbon, bear, elephant, gaur are found to live here.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Elephant is the largest mammal amongst the terrestrial animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In forest, birds like Moutusi, Doyel (Copsychus saularis) [the national bird of Bangladesh], parrot, woodpecker and some others.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Environmental Characteristics: In the coastal region of the Bay of Bengal the soil is saline, muddy and water logged.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Besides daily high and low tides is an important factor.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">All these environmental factors are unfavourable for plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">To overcome these adverse conditions, plants, those grow here, develop certain adaptations such as: Due to salinity of the soil their root cannot enter very deep in the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">So to protect from wind and storm many plants (e.g.Sundari) develop root buttresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Due to inadequate oxygen supply in the soil many plants e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Sundari, Keora, etc. develop Pneumatophores or respiratory roots, originate from the underground horizontal branch roots lying parallel with the soil surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">There are air pores and air spaces in these respiratory roots, which help the exchange of gasses.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">As seeds are washed out by tides, in some plants there occurs viviparous germination.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Hence seed germinates when it is in the fruits and fall on the earth when the root become elongated and heavy.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Viviparous germination found in plants such as Boro, Khosi, Hargoja etc. Sundari and Geowa do not have viviparous germination.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Plants those are adapted in adverse coastal environment are known as mangrove.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The forests, which develop by them, are called mangrove forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">In local language some times they are called Para-Bon Sundarban in the southern part of Bangladesh and Chokoria Sundarban in the south-eastern region are natural forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Besides these, for the protection of coastal area from cyclone and tidal bore many mangrove plants are Sundarban:</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Sundarban is the largest forest of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It comprises of land area of about 5100 square kilometer (2000 sq.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">miles), occupying the southern part of Khulna and south-western part of Potuakhali district.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The river Baleshwar in the east, Raymongal in the west, country's main land in the north and the Bay of Bengal in the south surround the Sundarbans.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">About 47% of the total forest area of the country, is occupied by the Sundarbans and more than 50% of the forest revenue is earned from the Sundarbans.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">From this forest we directly get timber, fuel, fish, honey and wax.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Every year 9,70,000 tons of Golpata (Leaf of Nipa fruticans, 220 tons of honey and 50 tons of wax are procured froms the Sundarban.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Besides these the forest protect the locality from high waves of the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">On the basis of the salinity the Sundarban is divided into three zones:</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Non-Saline Zone: Usually the area near the rivers, canals and channels are non-saline.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Main plant of this area is Sundari ( Heritiera fomes).</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Besides Geowa, Keora, Golpata, Amur, Hintal, Hargoja are also found to grow in abundance.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Mild Saline Zone: Main plant of this region is Geowa (Excoecaria agallocha) and among other plants there grow Pashur, Khapu, Kankra, Sada bain, Kala bain and Pakka Sundari.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Differrent species of animals live in this forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Many of them are found only in the mangrove forest region.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Some animals live within aerial or respiratory root area.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Abundant of red crab, shrimp and Chiring fish are found here.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">To move by jumping the pectoral fins of Chiring fish are specially developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The notable animal of the Sundarban is the Royal Bengal Tiger (Panthera tigris, the National Animal of Bangladesh).</sent>
				<sent id ="184">This animal possesses as much strength as it is beautiful to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">They are very brave and ferocious.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Once this tiger lived throughout the whole continent of Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">But this precious animal is now about to be extinct.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Only about-200 tigers are now present in the Sundarbans.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Besides this tiger, Otter, wildcat and cobra, pig, monkey and spotted deer are found to live there.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">There are big crocodiles in the rivers flowing through this forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Large number of beehives are found in the Sundarbans from which a good amount of honey and wax are procured.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Chakoria Sundarban: The mangrove forest situated in the estuary of the river Matamuhuri in Cox's Bazar district is named as Chakoria Sundarban.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">It is now exists with less than half of its previous area.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Plants: Main plants of Chakoria Sundarban are Bain, Ora, Keora, Soilkata, Garan, Kankra, Hintal, Golpata, Hargoja, Kholshi, tiger fern Nonalata, Sundrilata and few Sundari (at present almost nil so to say).</sent>
				<sent id ="195">There is another mangrove forest on the bank of the Naaf River near Teknaf, but there is no Sundari (Heritiera fomes) tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Major Animals: Different species of fishes, snakes and birds are found there.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Natural Diversity of Bangladesh-Distribution of Plants and Animals 275 Coastal Afforestation:</sent>
				<sent id ="198">To protect the lives and properties from successive cyclone and tidal bore in the open coastal region seedlings of mangrove plants have been planted along the coastal region.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">As a result an attractive forest has developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Within a short span of time the soil of the areas has changed its quality and has become cultivable.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Plants: In coastal afforestation usually Bain and Keora are planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Bain is planted in the soil containing comparatively high salinity and Keora in the estuary region where saline water mix with river carried fresh water.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Geologically Saint Martin's Island is a continental island.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">But many people take this island as a coral island as some corals are found to grow there.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">It is located about 12 kilometers off in the Bay from the main land of Teknaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The island is about 5 kilometers in length and 600 meters in breadth at certain places and 100 to 200 meters at some places.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">There are some small island nearby the island, which are called by the local people as Seradia or separate islands.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The northern part of the island is wider and known as Zinzira.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">There are inhabitants.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">In the south there is no inhabitants but there is mangrove forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">In Zinzira, there is a fresh water lowland.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Environmental Characteristics: Calcium enriched soil, moderate rainfall, and moderate temperature is the main environmental features.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Saline water enters in the mangrove forest at the time of high tides and recedes at low tides.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Plants: In the sandy shore of the island Jhau (Casuarina), Nishind (Vitis nigunda), Bhat, Nata, Chhagalkhurilata are found to grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">They are the plants of sandy heaps.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Around the island there are large varieties of screw pine (Pandanus).</sent>
				<sent id ="217">There are aquatic plants in the marshlands of Zinzira.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">There is a small mangrove forest in the south, but there is no Sundari tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Crepa, Khalshi Shoilkanta, Hargoja etc. are found to grow here.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Among the planted plants mango, jackfruit, Peyara, betel nut, pomelo (Jambura), plum (Kul) and at abundance of coconut are prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Around the homestead Chalta, Koroi Ipomia, Udal, fig etc. are found to grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">In the island usually Paddy Coriander, Onion, Chili, Garlic, Sweet potato etc. are cultivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">There are various brown and red alga growing on corals and stones.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">At presen afforestation process is going on in this island.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Main Animals: Large marine turtles are found in the island.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">They come on the land for laying eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">They lay many eggs at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Besides, in the lowlying area of the southern part there are innumerable red crabs and abundant of marine birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Around the island there are various kinds of marine fishes in the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Several corals, different species of marine snails, bivalves and poisonous snakes are present around the island.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The inhabitants of this island usually live on fishing.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Population is increasing very rapidly in the northern part of the island.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Children collect and sell stone and corals of sandy beach to the tourists.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">As a result soil is eroding from the entire coastal area.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Thus hampering the environment of the island.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Importance of Forest Regions for the Conservation of Environment and maintaining the Ecological Balance: Plants, animals, water, light, air.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">temperature and soil etc. are the components of Natural Environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">These Factors collectively form the natural environment of a particular region.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">From the beginning the Almighty Creator has established a balance in these elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Any single notable change in any element of nature of any particular area affects the established balance among the total elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Ultimately it causes adverse reaction on environment as a whole.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">As a result.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">the natural environment is destroyed and gradually it becomes inhabitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The flora, particularly the forest of a region or of a country plays a direct role in maintaining the natural environment and protecting a balance because the plants are the Primary Producer.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">For example, if there is no plant in any water reservoir (or marshy land), then no fish will survive there and in absence of fish, the fish dependent cranes, other birds and snakes will not be able to live there.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">If the forests of an area are destroyed, the water holding capacity of soil will be decreased rainfall will be less, degradation of land will increase, rivers will be silted up, and in rainy season the area will be flooded easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">And due to the lowering of the water level in the dry season draught will appear.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The yield of crops will decrease and deficiency will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Again all the inhabiting animals, birds, frogs, snakes will perish or they will come to the cropland or locality in search of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">If the number of plant is decreased the amount of CO2 will increase in the atmosphere and the natural balance will be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">So for leading a normal healthy life for ourselves and our next generation we shall have to give adequate protection to our present forest resources and raise more and more forests and fruit trees to increase the plant resources according to the additional demand of the growing population.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Conservation of endangered plants and animals: The land area is limited on the earth but population is increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">New houses are being made for this additional population to live.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Schools and colleges are being built for the education of their children, hospitals for treatment;</sent>
				<sent id ="255">new roads are being made for their movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">More cultivable land are being procured for producing additional food for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">For all these reasons forest land are being destroyed every moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">It is learnt from different survey report that at present in average 50 acres of forestland are being destroyed in every minute.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Due to destruction of forest areas, many plant and animal species dependent on them have already been perished and many more species are on the way to be extinct.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The endangered plants and animals are inseparable components of the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">So to save the environmental balance they must be protected from the extinction, so that we can get valuable life saving medicine and Natural Diversity of Bangladesh-Distribution of Plants and Animals 277 valuable gene for the development of the crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">By this time many plants and animals ar going to be perished.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">They must be protected from extinction.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">The endagered plants are Ashwagandha, Latakasturi, wild onion, and Montesia etc. and among the endagered animals are Ghorial, Green tortoise, Python, King cobra, hilly Moyena and stripped tiger.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">In order to save them the natural environment, where they grow, is to be conserved as it was before.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The destruction of forest area must be stopped totally.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">No uncontrolled procurement of plant from nature will be allowed.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The use of insecticides, fungicides or weedicides should be minimized as much as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Man needs food to eat, clothes to wear, house to live, medicine to recover from illness and beverages to drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">These are absolutely necessary for human beings to live on.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">These are the basic needs of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">These basic needs of us are fulfilled by various kinds of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Besides these, we get paper from plant, which is an important element of civilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">We get rubber without which the civilization cannot run.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">We get various kinds of dyes, gums, and essential fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">We get raw materials for agriculture and industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">We get boat for river cruise.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">We get fresh air enriched with oxygen and what not.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">In short, the importance of plants is unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">A brief description of the plants that produce our food, clothes, dwellings, medicine and beverages are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Food gives us energy to work, fulfils the decaying of body and adds nutrition to our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">According to nature of nutrient compounds, human foods are divided into six categories.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Carbohydrates, Protein, Fats, Mineral salts, Vitamins and 6.Water.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Every category of food contains some amount of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Short introductions of 10 food-producing plants are stated here.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Paddy (Oryza sativa): Paddy is a grass like plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The stem is hollow, leaves are elongated and with leaf sheath.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Panicle of paddy grows at the apex of the stem. in Bangladesh three varieties of rice are cultivated - Aus (sown in Feb - April), b) Amon (sown in wet soil during June-July), Boro (sown in low land during .</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Besides these high yielding varieties of IRRI and BRRI paddy also cultivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">IRRI and BRRI varieties of paddy may be sown as Aus, Amon or Boro.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
