<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-biology-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.87</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">188</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2145</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">770</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t29">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Prokaryotie cell or Proto cell : Nucleus is not well organized in these cells; nuclear membrane and nucleolus are absent here.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">In these cells Chromosome contains only DNA.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Generally no other organelles are present except Ribosome.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Cell division happens here through Amitosis process.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Eukaryotic cell or Eucell : There are well-organised nucleus in these cells with membrane and nucleolus.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Chromosome contains DNA, proteins Chloroplasts, Mitochondria and other organelles.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Cell division happens through mitosis process.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Somatic cell : These cells construct the living body but do not take part in reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In the lower group of living objects they are haploid i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">only one set of chromosomes are present, but in higher groups they are diploid i.e. there are two sets of chromosome in the nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Reproductive cell: These cells take part in sexual reproduction but do not construct the main body.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">These cells are also haploid.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Sperm and ovum are examples of reproductive cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It is normal to have some diversity in size, shape and structure of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The size, shape and structure of a eukaryotic cell (eucell) are described below in brief.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Shape: Cells are of different shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Mainly they are spherical, oval, rectangular, barrel shaped or polygonal.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Structurally cells are of various types.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">For that in a certain cell all the organelles or structural ingredients may not be present.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">For that reason, considering the presence of all the organelles in a certain cell, it may be termed as a Generalized Cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">A generalized cell has mainly two parts- Cell wall and protoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Cell wall is the unique characteristics of a plant cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The non-living and hard wall, which constructs the plant cell, is called the cell wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">At first Robert Hook observed it in 1665 AD.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">There is no cell wall in Animal cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Chemical composition of cell wall: The cell wall is mainly composed of cellulose, hemicellulose, pectose, lignin, suberine etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Those are made by different carbohydrate compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The cell wall of fungi is made of a carbohydrate called chitin.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The cell wall of bacteria made of protein, lipid and polymer.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The functions of cell wall are to give a definite shape to the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">It protects the Cell from external injury and gives necessary rigidity and to regulate the flow fluid between external and internal side of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Protoplasm is made by the mixture of different complex compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">It is jelly like, translucent, viscous, colourless semi solid-living substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">All the pro perties of life are present in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Protoplasm is divided into three parts: Plasma membrane, Cytoplasm and Nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Just beneath the cell wall there is a soft living membrane surrounding the whole protoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">This is called cytoplasmic membrane or cell membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Plasma membrane is bi-layered.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Under electron microscope there revealed a light layer between two dark layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">In the cell membrane of some epithelial cell there found some finger like out growth-these are called Microvilli (Singular : Microvillus).</sent>
				<sent id ="41">They increase the absorption surface of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The membrane between two adjacent cells modified in various forms to make the Connection between two cells rigid.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">They also make the movement of different substances between the cells easier.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">In many cells spaces in the cell membrane may be broader.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Plastids are largest in size among the organelles present in cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">They can be seen clearly under microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Plastids are not present in Fungi, Bacteria and Animal cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Outside the nucleus, the part of protoplasm, which is surrounded by the cell membrane, is known as cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">It is composed of different organic and inorganic compounds like water.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">different nucleic acid and enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The outer area of cytoplasm is more concentrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">less granular and hard, which is called Ectoplasm, and the central area, Which is less concentrated, called Endoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Leucoplast: They are colourless, as they have no pigment.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Leucoplast may be converted into Chromoplast or mainly chloroplast in contact with sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">In absence of light the case may be reversed.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Position: Leucoplasts are present in the cells of organs like root.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">underground stem etc. which do not come in contact with sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Chromatoplast: Chromatoplasts are green or other colour;</sent>
				<sent id ="59">when green, it is called chloroplast and when they are other colour it is called Chromoplast.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Chromoplast: They are variously coloured, other than green, mostly yellow and red in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">They are also variable in shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Chromoplast occurred in coloured part of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">petals, coloured fruit and seeds, roots of carrot etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Function: Flowers are coloured and beautiful due to their presence.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Chloroplast: They possesses green pigments named chlorophyll in excess as a result they are green.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Other pigments are also present to some extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Every cell may contain one or more chloroplast.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">In higher plants the shapes of chloroplast is lenceolate.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">In Algal cells their shapes are of various types, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">cup shaped, spiral, reticulate, star shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">A bi-layered semipermiable membrane surrounds the whole chloroplast.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">It is composed of protein and lipid.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">This is called lipoprotein.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">A hygroscopic matrix surrounded by a membrane is there.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">This matrix is called stroma.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">In the stroma, 40-80 well-arranged barrel shaped grana (sing: granum) are present.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">In one granum there are 5-25 granum disc.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Inside the granum disc, there are spaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Probably chlorophyll and other photosynthetic materials are present in this chamber.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Some granum discs of two adjacent grana are connected by minute tubular bodies, which are called stroma lamelli.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Many crystalline bodies are arranged in the membrane of grana disc.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">These are called quantosome.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">In the dark phase of photosynthesis, carbon-di-oxide is assimilated mainly in the quantosome.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Function: Its function is to prepare carbohydrate food by the process photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Mitochondria: Krebs cycle, fatty acid cycle, electron transport system etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">take place in mitochondria (sing: mitochondrion).</sent>
				<sent id ="87">All energy producing process occurs in mitochondria for which mitochondria are compared to the powerhouse of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Number of mitochondria may vary according to the species.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Normally each cell contains average 300-400 mitochondria.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Their shape may be globular, rod, thread, star-shaped or ring-shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The outside of mitochondria is surrounded by a bi-layered membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The membrane is made by lipoprotein, which is enriched with lipid and protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The outer membrane is smooth but the inner one has a series of enfolding into the inner cavity of mitochondria.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">These enfolding are called cristae.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Small stalked granular bodies are arranged on the cristae and they are called auxisome.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In a mature cell a network is found in the cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">This is called endoplasmic reticulum.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Endoplasmic reticulum is of two types - smooth and rough.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">ER having ribosome on its body is called rough endoplasmic reticulum.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Structure: They are bounded by double-layered semipermiable membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Normally they are branched but may occur in parallel.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">They are continuous with the nuclear membrane and the cell membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Chemically the membrane is made by lipoprotein.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Small granular bodies may be present on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Function: They form the skeleton of protoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Protein synthesis occurs in rough endoplasmic reticulum.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Lipid, in alternative opinion, different hormones, glycogens etc. are synthesized in the smooth endoplasmic reticulum.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">They play the role of internal carrier of lipid and protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Ribosomes are small spherical /granular organelle.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">They may occur freely in the cytoplasm and may be attached on the outer wall of endoplasmic reticulum.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Structure: These are spherical and bounded by double layered membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Mostly they are made by protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Function: In ribosome various amino acids are combined to synthesize protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Golgi bodies/Golgi apparatus: Golgi bodies may be flat, spherical or elongated.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Normally they are present near the nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">It was first observed by a scientist named Golgi in 1898 AD in the nerve cells of owl and cat.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">This organelle is afterward named Golgi apparatus after his name.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">In plant cells their number is small for which it is not always visible under microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Structure: Golgi apparatus is tubular, small vesicle, vacuolar, elongated vessel like or lamillar bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">They are vacuolar space bounded by double-layered membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">necessary for respiration are well arranged in auxisome.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">About 70 types of enzymes and 14 types of co-enzymes are present in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Matrix is also present inside the free space of mitochondria.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The main function of mitochondria is to produce energy, like- respiration, oxidative phosphorilation, electron transport system etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Function: Function of Golgi bodies are- synthesis of lysosome and non-protein substances, releasing some enzymes, expelling cell water and attaching substances to its membrane produced by endoplasmic reticulum.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Lysosome is formed by various enzyme bounded by a membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Normally they are spherical.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Their membrane is bi-layered.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Function: Their functions are phagocytosis i.e. to eat the invading enemy in the cell, to protect different organelles in the cell by dissolving enzymes and to help in digestion.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">In animal cell there is a spherical body outside the nucleus, which is called centrosome.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The fluid by which it is composed is called centrosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">At the center of centrosphere there are two cylindrical objects called centriole.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">At the time of cell division the pair of centriole is separated and moves to two opposite pole (of the cell).</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Function: At the time of cell division centrosome directs the poles of spindle apparatus and help in cell division.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The open spaces that found in the cytoplasm is the vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">In immature cell their number are many and small in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">But in a mature cell all the vacuoles combined together to form a large vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The thin membrane that covers the vacuole is called tonoplast.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The internal fluid of the vacuole is called cell sap.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Different kind of inorganic salts, organic acid, carbohydrate, protein, fat, various complex substances and various colour are present in the cell sap.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Denser and clearer organ found in the protoplasm is Nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Robert Brown discovered and named nucleus in 1831 AD in the cell of orchid leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Normally each cell contains one nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Some eukaryotic cell like sieve tube, mature red blood cells of mammal do not have nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Usually nucleus is spherical and present at the centre of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">They may be present by the side of a large vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Nucleus may smaller or larger in size and shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Function : Nucleus controls the total activity of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Structure: Chemically they are made of nucleic acid and protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It contains some protein, trace of DNA (Deoxi-ribo nucleic acid) and RNA (Ribo Nucleic Acid), little amount of Co-enzyme and other materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Nuclear membrane: The double layered transparent membrane, which make the outer covering of the nucleus is the nuclear membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The outer membrane porous but the inner one is not.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Chemically the membrane is made of protein and lipid.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Function: The main function of this membrane.is</sent>
				<sent id ="155">to keep the nucleoplasm, chromosome and the nucleus distinct from cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Transportation and communication between internal materials and cytoplasm is also done through this membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Nucleoplasm: It is a transparent and dense fluid bounded by nuclear membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Nucleolus and chromosomes are present in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Function: It holds chromosomes and performs various organic functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Nucleolus: The denser, small and round body found in the nucleus is the nucleolus.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Every nucleus normally contains a single nucleolus.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Nucleolus is usually attached to a certain area of a Particular chromosome.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The region of chromosome where it remain attached is called `secondary constriction.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Chemical composition: The main compositions of the nucleolus are protein, RNA and a trace of DNA.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Physical structure: Nucleolus is usually divided into three parts namely fibrous, granular and matrix.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Function: To synthesise various types of DNA and protein and preserve them.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Chromosome: In every nucleus there is a definite number of chromosomes according to the characteristic of definite species.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">It can be seen under microscope after proper staining, only in a dividing cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Every chromosome contains one or more centromere, one chromonema or more chromonemata and some chromosome may have satellite.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Chromosome bears a number of gene and genes are responsible for expressing characteristics of different species.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Chemical composition of chromosome: Chemically each chromosome is composed of DNA, RNA, Histon and non-histon protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Besides, some calcium and magnesium are also present here.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Function: Chromosome is the bearer and carrier of hereditary properties of the organism.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">In a mature cell, in addition to the above-mentioned substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">there are various types of non-living objects.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">They are present in the cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Non- living objets may be classified into three types, namely reserve food, secretory materials and excretory materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Most plant cells are bounded by a non-living cell wall made of cellulose.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">No cell wall is present in animal cell.It is surrounded only by plasma membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Different types of plastids are present.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Plastids are not available here.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Usually one or more vacuoles are present.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Except some lower group of animals most of the animal cell do not have any vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Normally no centrosome is present in plant cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Animal cell always bears centrosome Golgi bodies are rarely seen in plant cell under microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Golgi bodies are frequently seen here under microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">In plant cell reserve food is mainly starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">In animal cell reserve food is mainly glycogen.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
