<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-biology-12</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.809</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">213</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3137</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1141</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t27">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Soil is polluted by several means.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Soil is eroded by different natural factors like flood, volcanic eruption, rainfall, and wind flow etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Due to flood soil is eroded and become unproductive.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Plant cannot grow on that soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Rainfall and wind in the same way erode the upper layer of the earth and make the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Several activities of human beings,cause the soil to be polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Destruction of forests and plants, excessive cultivation and irrigation cause soil pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">If there is no plant and cultivation is done in excess, it will erode the fertile layer of the soil surface and thus soil will become non-fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Excess irrigation causes waterlogging and makes the soil saline.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Underground salt being dissolved in water come to the surface and make the soil non-fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Various types of waste materials are one of the causes of soil pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Harmful chemical substances and substances that is not absorbed by nature (e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">polythene, plastic etc.) cause soil pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">When soil is polluted no plants, insects or microorganisms can grow on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">As a result the soil becomes unproductive and unfit for human habitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">To keep the natural environment balanced a fertile and productive soil is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Therefore, we all should take care so that the soil does not get unfertile and polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">One of the ways to protect soil pollution is to plant more and more plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">There should have necessary laws so that industries do not leave their wastes here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">If we all are careful against soil pollution it is possible to prevent the pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The gaseous layer that surrounds the earth from above the soil and water layer is the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Above the stratosphere and extended up to 3500 K.M. 248Natural Diversity of Bangladesh-Distribution of Plants and Animals Fog mist, dust particles, clouds, and wind etc. are limited only in the Troposphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">In this layer the average ratio (depending on density) of different components are as follows:</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Beneath the Stratosphere (25 to 30 K.M. from Earth's crust) there is a dense layer of Ozone.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">It is called Ozone barrier.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">This layer protects the life from the harmful effects of the radioactive waves particularly the Ultraviolet Rays of the Sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The density of air in the ionosphere is very light.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Due to the effect of the radioactive rays of the Sun the components of the air remain in ionic forms. of CO2 increases in the air?</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The effect resulting the increase of CO2 in the atmosphere is known as Green House Effect.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">This topic has been elaborately discussed in the next chapter.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">As a result of green house effect the temperature of the atmosphere increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">For this, there is a possibility of dissolving the ice of polar region and that may cause great flood.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Like soil air is also polluted by natural or human activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Air is polluted by natural causes like sandstorm, forest fire, volcanic eruption etc. Dusts, smoke and poisonous gases mix with air and make the air polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Air is being polluted by smoke from mills and factories, automobiles and from bad smell of waste materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">In the smoke of industries and automobiles there are CO2, CO, SO2 and various other harmful gases.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">When carbon monoxide mixes with blood, it totally destroys the Oxygen transport capacity of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Without Oxygen people will die.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Sulphur dioxide and Nitric oxide, produced by Nitrogenous fertilizers, when mixed with rainwater causes acid rain, which is very much harmful for plants, animals, buildings, and instruments.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">CFC (Chloro-Fluoro Carbon) gas evolves from various materials used by human beings gets in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">CFC gas is responsible for damages in the Ozone layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Detailed discussion in this respect will come later.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The most effective way to stop air pollution is to increase the number of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">This will maintain the balance of the amount of O2 and COOn the other hand it is necessary to take care so that no harmful gas can be mixed with the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Condition will improve if filter is used in mills and automobiles.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We have so much water in our country that mostly we do not feel the effect of water pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Water is polluted by natural means like flood and rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">As a result of flood many impurities are mixed with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Water is mostly polluted by man-made causes.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Industrial wastes, household garbage, rainwater containing chemical fertilizer and insecticide, all these mixed with water make it polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Due to water pollution extreme harm is caused to aquatic plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The oxygen content of water becomes reduced and thus many fishes and aquatic animals die and float on the water surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">There are strict regulations against water pollution in European countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">All water transport vessels are to take necessary measures so that their oil and waste materials do not pollute water.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">There are provisions of severe punishment or heavy penalties if such measures are not taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">To prevent water pollution in our country primarily people should be motivated through different medias.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Later regulations should be implemented very strictly and impartially.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Sound is a constant companion of the city dwellers.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Sounds of vehicles and vendors wake us up in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">All through the day sound pollution occurs with mixed sound of different machineries, telephones and loud voices of human beings in the offices and these have become very normal sound pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">When a man comes back home and listens to Radio, T.V. or Tape recorder then there is also sound pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">If sound exceeds a certain limit (80 decibel).</sent>
				<sent id ="63">it reaches the stage of pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The effect of sound pollution is quite harmful to animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">It causes high blood pressure, insomnia (sleeplessness), loss of hearing capacity and extreme case of mental disorder.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Ultraviolt-B consist of medium wave length.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">And UV -C consist of short wave length.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The ozone layer in the stratosphere zone prevents the total amount of the most dangerous UV -C and most part of less harmful UV -B.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The rest amount UV B is prevented from coming to the earth, by the troposphere zone and clouds.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Ozone is one kind of gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Three oxygen atoms together constitute one molecule of ozone.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The chemical formula is O3, Certainly you know about the three layers of atmosphere Troposphere, and Stratosphere Ionosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">A dense ozone layer exists in the stratosphere zone about 25 to 30 K.M. above the Earth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Ozone is also present in the troposphere zone.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">This layer of ozone surrounds the Earth from all sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">You have learnt that from time immemorial this ozone layer has been protecting the living beings of the earth from deadly ultraviolet rays radiated from the Sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Ultraviolet rays are of three types: UV-A rays consist of long wavelength.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Two American Scientists Maria Molina and Sherwood Ronald in 1974 AD first gave the idea that the chemical compound Chloro Fluoro Carbon (CFC) that is used in our daily life is responsible for the damage of ozone layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">CFC compound is used in the cans of Aerosol and in making of various foams.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Getting release in to the atmosphere it moves to the higher atmospheric zone.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The CFC compound does not break easily in the lower zone of the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Reaching stratosphere CFC comes in contact with ultraviolet rays and releases chlorine after breaking itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The free chlorine then acts as a catalyst and break the ozone molecule to an oxygen molecule and one oxygen atom.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">This process goes for years after years.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Some other chemical compounds like Carbon Tetrachloride Trichloromethane and Helone also adversely affect the ozone layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Ultraviolet rays are harmful to living bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">It is proved that an increased exposure to UV -A and UV -B resulting an enhanced possibility of skin cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Besides, various eye diseases like formation of cataract, distortion of eye- lenses, and lose of eye-sight found in aged people, are due to the effect of UV - B.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Due to the reduction of the power of disease resistance, contaminations of various infectious diseases increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">You know what is green house.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">cold countries plants are grown in a green house to protect them from external cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Usually this house is made of glasses.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">As a result sunlight can enter inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Inside the room plants live on carbohydrates manufacture through photosynthesis by the help of sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">With the help of sunlight the internal environment of the house remain warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">As glass is bad conductor of heat so external cold cannot reach inside nor internal heat can go out.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere acts almost like the glass of the green house.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The earth is heated by sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Much of this heat is lost to the space-by radiation through the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">As a result the temperature of the atmosphere remains more or less same.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">But if the amount of CO2 is increased in the atmosphere, the condition becomes different.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Some of the radiated heat is absorbed and retained by carbon dioxide; this results in the increase of atmospheric temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Scientists have calculated and found that the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere has been increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">You must know why the amount of carbon dioxide is increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Large-scale deforestation is one of the main reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Another reason is the use of fossil fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Petrol, diesel, kerosene, coal etc. are mineral fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Its uses are increasing in factories, vehicles, and household purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">As a result the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Can you realise the effect of increased atmospheric temperature on the environment due to green house effect?</sent>
				<sent id ="111">You know that huge amount of ice is deposited in the two polar regions of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">With the increase of the atmospheric temperature this ice will start melting.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">As a result the water level of seas will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Many islands, seaside cities and countries will gradually go under water.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Many areas of Bangladesh may submerge under the water of the Bay of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">From above discussion you must have learnt that various activities of human beings are responsible for pollution of the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Men knowingly or unknowingly are polluting the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">So attaining the knowledge about environment pollution and developing consciousness should be the primary responsibility for preventing environment pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">If we are aware of pollution of the environment, have willingness and desire to prevent it then we will be able to do it.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">A town or city develops with all these facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The system by which a town or city develops is called urbanization.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">To develop an ideal town some important aspects should be taken into consideration.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Towns and cities of our country have not been developed in well-planned way as those of the developed countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Except the new part of Dhaka and some areas of Chittagong, our towns are developed absolutely without any planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">While establishing an ideal town some important aspects should be taken into consideration with great importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">To establish a town primarily it is necessary to select a suitable site.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">To live in comfort it is necessary to construct neat, clean and comfortable houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">In these houses there should have clean and pure water supply, electricity, gas supply and proper sanitary system.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">For proper supply of daily necessities and fresh vegetables, fish and meat, there should have shops and markets.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Due to gradual increase of population there develops undesired formation of slums in vacant places inside and around the towns.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">In these slums uproote people live in extremely miserable condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">This situation is gradually turning to be more acute.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">As a result various social and hygienic problems are being created.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Unplanned urbanization results extreme deterioration of the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The environment of the slums, developed for the new comers from the villages, is dirty and unhealthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Because in these slums there is no water supply or drainage and sewerage system.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">There is no facility of collecting water from rivers, canals, ponds or pools like villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">As a result the slum dwellers often suffer from various water borne diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">From these slums diseases spread to other areas of the town also.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">But in towns purified and chlorinated water is stored in big tanks at a high level.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Water is then supplied to different areas of the town through pipelines.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">But for excess population the stored water is not sufficient.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Consequently the inhabitants of the town suffer from water shortage.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The supply of fuel is a significant problem of unplanned urbanization Previously in town also, wood and dry cowdung were used for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">But at present natural gas is being used.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Now a day, in many countries, Bio-gas is being used for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Smoke originates from both wood and dried cow dung and pollutes the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">For unplanned urbanization supply of natural gas cannot be ensured to every corner and for all the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">For maintaining cleanness and healthy condition in these shops and markets, Public health department should supervise them regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">For treatment of diseases there should have dispensaries and hospitals, population control and family planning centers, maternities etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Along with schools and colleges for children's education there should have arrangement to establish libraries, recreation and health-care centers, including playgrounds, clubs, parks etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">There should have suitable recreation center for aged people so that they can pass a life of ease.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">There should have arrangements for prevention and treatments of various contagious diseases so that these may not turn into epidemics.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">There should have necessary job provision for the town dwellers.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Because of rapid increase of population people from villages are rushing to towns in search of livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The urbanization process must be planned for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Otherwise there will be no comfort in life of the town dwellers and the environment will be polluted day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Commercial establishment of mills, factories and machineries for the production of various necessary materials for the people is known as industrialisation.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">With the objective of industrialisation various types of industries have been established in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Previously men were dependent more on articles available in the nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">But with the advancement of human civilization; industrialisation is also improving rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In the recent past there was a balance between birth rate and death rate in the world, particularly in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">At present number of death caused by natural calamities like cyclone, famine, different fatal diseases, aggression and bite of harmful animals, is much less than as prevaile in the past.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Now a day there are preventive measures for protections against the disastrous effect of every natural calamity.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">For example the forecast of cyclone is available before hand and taking shelter in safe places people can save their lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">With the improvement of communications system famine do not occur as frequently as before, even if it occurs food can be supplied easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Prevention of hunting wild animal and adopting defensive measures against their attack has made human life safer than before.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Taking effective and preventive measures against severe diseases man has become able to recover from his illness and avoid inevitable death.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Thus the average longevity of human being has increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">As a result with increased longevity people can give birth to children in greater number.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Above all the general people of Bangladesh are reluctant to adopt family planning for which the population of this country is increasing rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">For this increase in population the cultivable land and forest areas are gradually decreasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Thus the demands of agriculture as the main livelihood of our country can no longer be met from agriculture alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">For this reason it is necessary to establish industries in a well planned way.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">But our conventional industries are dependent on our natural resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">As the raw materials produced in our country are not sufficient for the need, thus necessary raw materials are to be imported from foreign countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Such materials should be produced which are at present imported from abroad e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">production of superior quality of cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">B. Such materials should be manufactured for which raw materials may be imported from abroad, and utilising cheap labour of this country, those items may be produced and exported abroad, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">garments and ceramic industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Cloths being imported from outside and by utilising cheaper local labour garments are produce and exported.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It is a profitable business.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Unplanned growth of industries deteriorates the environments in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Mills and factories should not be established in human habitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Industrial smoke pollutes the air of the locality.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">If unused and excess raw materials and by-products are, not removed properly, these may often decompose and pollute both soil and air.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Often in the name of by-products the industrial wastes are thrown to the river or other water reservoirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">As a result the water of the reservoir become polluted and may cause harm to fishes and other aquatic animals living there.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Use of this polluted water may also do harm to human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">So industries should not be established here and there in unplanned way.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">If industries, producing high sounds are established in human localities, people of those areas will become victim of soun pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">In this way unplanned industrialisation directly or indirectly may affects the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Unplanned industrialisation deteriorates the public hygiene of environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">so before establishing any industry in an area the above factors should carefully be taken into consideration.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Bangladesh is a small country of an area of about 1,47,570 square kilometers.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">It'is situated in between 2034 and 2638 northern latitude and 8801 and 9241 eastern longitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Though the country is small yet the plant and animal resources is not so little.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">River washed Bangladesh is the largest delta in the world, having characteristics of natural diversities.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Growth rate of population in this country is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The density of population is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">To meet the needs of this additional population, homesteads and furniture are being made, and cultivable lands are being procured by destroying valuable forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">As a result forestland is terribly destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Many species of plants and animals are becoming extinct.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Thus plant and animal resources are being lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">As a result the topography (land forms) of this country is being changed very rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The nature of any region is the combination of various inorganic components like topography, climate, rivers and canals, mountains and hills etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The nature and natural flora and fauna of a particular region together form the natural environment of that region.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The characteristics, which prevail in a particular natural environment, are known as natural characteristics of that region.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The natural environment of a particular region is dependent on the topography and climate of that region.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Bangladesh may be divided into several regions on the basis of topography or landform.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The environmental components, flora and fauna of this region are full of special characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">This region comprises of the vast plain land of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The land is formed by the alluvium carried by different rivers, particularly the Ganges, the Brahmmaputra and the Padma.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
