<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-budh-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.446</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">398</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5242</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1865</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t45">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Man is a social being.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Society came into existence to beautify the life of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Society is for the man.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Because, man cannot live without society.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In ancient times, our forefathers have made rules and regulation for the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">It is necessary for man to follow some social obligations in order to live unitedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">If they live as they wish, there arises disorders in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Hence, the members of the family began to abide by the rules in the family as prescribed for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">First education begins in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">We have to honour the orders and advice of the Head of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">So many members live in the joint family.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Generally, the eldest becomes the Head in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Father is the Head in the single family.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Mother is the Head if father is not alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">We have to honour both the mother and the father.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">We respect their words, we are grown up with their affection and love.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">They earn money for maintaining the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">There are also the chiefs or the leaders in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The aged and the learned become the chiefs of the society, they protect the rules and discipline in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">They punish the wrong doers.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">They abuse the guilty for minor faults and give serious punishment to those who are accused for unpardonable crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">If the accused are beyond the control, they are handed over to the authority maintaining laws and orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">There are two kinds of rules in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">One in general ; the other is religious.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Discipline, maintenance of peace, marriage etc. are included in the general rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The religious rules include religious rituals, treatises or jurisprudence.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Each believer of his religious faith has to abide by his own religious regulations.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">If one does not observe code, disorderly situation arises.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The same occurs in the society also if the social rules are not abided by.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Panca Silas or five precepts are to be observed first as the Buddhist faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Panca Silas are called as the main structure and power in the Buddhist thought.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">There are so many rules to be observed by the Samaneras, Bhikkhus and the laymen.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">These religious rules are called Vinaya:</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The Vinaya code for the Samaneras and the Bhikkhus are codified in the Vinaya Pitaka and the social and disciplinary rules are mentioned scattered in the Nikaya books.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Here we are discussing briefly the rules codified for the Bhikkhu Samaneras and the laities.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The Buddha had codified some modes of livelihood for the Buddhist Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He has given stress on the very simple livelihood of the Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Entrance to the Buddhist Sangha is open to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">At the very beginning, the rules for the ordination in the Sangha was not rigid.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">During Buddha's lifetime, the entrance to the Sangha was on probation for four months.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">But His last disciple, Subhadra was ordained in one day.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Like this, so many cases are there in the Vinaya texts.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Because, the Buddha Himself gave them ordination, who were fit for the fruition.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Later some rules for taking the ordination were introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">A boy less than twelve years cannot take ordination as a Samanera (novice).</sent>
				<sent id ="46">There is no provision to become a Bhikkhu (monk), if he is less than twenty years.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">To become a Samanera, one has to take refuge in the Three Gems (Tisarana).</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Secondly, he has to take ten Precepts (Dasa Silas).</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The ten precepts coincide with Panca Silas except third one.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The ordination ceremony from the Samanera to the Bhikkhu is called Upasampada (Higher ordination).</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Self control is the first observance for the Samaneras and the Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The above mentioned ten prohibitions are prescribed for both the Samaneras and the Bhikkhus: These are elaborately discussed in the chapter Sila.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The Acariya (Preceptor) gives the following advices to the Nava Pabbajita (Newly ordained) after the completion of ordination.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The fourth rule for offence was introduced at Vaisali at the time of famine.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Then some Bhikkhus preached them as capable of performing miracles to the public to attract the laymen for alms:</sent>
				<sent id ="56">For that reason, the Buddha prohibited the Bhikkhus to show miracles.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The Bhikkhus live on begging.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">They beg for alms from door to door.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">During Buddha's time, most of the Bhikkhus would take their meal under the tree after begging.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Whatever meal they take, it is to be finished before midday (Twelve O'clock).</sent>
				<sent id ="61">If the laymen wish to invite them, it is necessary to observe the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The Upasaka-Upasikas also offer alms to the Bhikkhus at the monastery during the Uposatha-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The Samaneras or Bllikkhus have to cut off hair and moustache.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The necessaries or requisites are called Atthaparikkharas (The Eight articles).</sent>
				<sent id ="65">These are the three robes (Ticivara), an alms bowl, a razor, a needle, a girdle and a water straineer.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">In addition to those, the Samaneras and the Bhikkhus are authorised to keep with them the minor necessaries, such as umbrella, stick etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The Buddha has prescribed the above eight articles (Atthaparikkhara) as daily necessaries for the Samaneras and the Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It seems from the above fact that the Buddha has authorised the Samaneras and the Bhikkhus to lead simple and easy life for which these minimum requirements are sufficient for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Poverty and restraint are the two cardinal principles for the Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The Bhikkhus have to practise self control.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They have to abstain from taking gold and silver.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">If any laity offers gold and silver, they cannot possess them.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">They have to spend these for the benefit of the monastery or the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">They may exchange these with the laymen to meet the need of travelling expenses.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Land, monastery and other valuable things are not the personal properties of a Bhikkhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The ownership of these properties automatically goes to the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">There is no worship to the deities in Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Hence, there exists no temple of the gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In place of it, Cetiyas or Pagodas are built for religious performances.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">In ancient times the Buddhist monasteries provided residence of the Sangha and Buddha's Philosophy and doctrine were taught there.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Later, the big monasteries were converted into the best seats of education and knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">At present, we understand the Viharas as the Buddhist monasteries or prayer halls.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Previously, the Cetiyas were constructed for worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">After the Parinibbana (Great Decease) of the Buddha, adoration to Him is practised.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Adoration to Boddhisattva, Arhant, Sivali are also prevalent besides the Buddha puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The Pilgrimages and memorial places of the Buddha are also visited and worshipped by the Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">At least twice a day in the morning and in the evening Bhikkhus are to adore.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The Samaneras and the Bhikkhus have to meditate and to acquire dormant virtues, such as Metta (Loving kindness), Karuna (compassion), Mudita (Sympathetic joy), Asubha Bhavana (Meditation on corpse) and Upekkha (Equanimity).</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Whatever living beings there be, deities or men or foes or animals, seen or unseen, long or short, be free from enmity, disease and grief and may they take care of themselves happily.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">This benefactory thinking is termed as Metta Bhavna or meditation on loving kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Feelings sympathy in the sorrows of others is Karuna or compassions.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">To meditate how to eradicate the sufferings of the living beings and improve their happiness is Karuna Bhavna.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Mudita or Sympathetic joy is that who thinks happiness to others for their prosperity and to meditate for everlasting is defined as Mudita Bhavana or meditation on the sympathy.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In this sense, the meditator is internally happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">It discards jealousy.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Impermanence of the body is associated with suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Insubstantiality in the body is illusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Movements of the body are impermanent and purely temporary.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Asubha Bhavana or Meditation on corpse liberates ourselves from delusion and thereby puts an end both to ignorance and craving.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">All living beings are equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Upekkha or Equanimity embraces the weak and the strong, the poor and the rich, the young and the decay, the good and the bad, the pleasant and the unpleasant, the loved and the unloved equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The representation of detachment from all worldly nature and undisturbed mind is called Upekkha.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It discards clinging and aversion.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The above Brahma Vihara meditation is declared as the higest life.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Bhikkhus and Samaneras practised these Five Meditaion in the morning and evening in a solitary place.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">According to Buddhism, Jhana or meditation is the supreme wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Jhana (Meditation) is needed to fulfil the aim of glorious life.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">It is the best which concentrates the mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">It is the first stage to discard the desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">There are four stages of Jhana : Pathama Jhana (first stage of meditation), Dutiya Jhana (second stage of meditation), Tatiya Jhana (third stage of meditation) and Atutta Jhana (fourth stage of meditation).</sent>
				<sent id ="111">These stages are to be passed one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The purpose of Buddhist meditaion is to gain intellectual understanding and to liberate oneself from the bondage.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Development of concentration enables the meditator to gain the ultimate goal-the Nibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The highest stage of meditation is the cessation of all sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The Buddha was plunged into this great Meditation and attained Nibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Samadhi is one pointedness of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">It is the concentration of mind or one object to the entire exclusion of all else.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">It is defined as the four meditative absorptions (Jhana) of which the second one is linked.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It is associated with all wholesome consciousness (Kusala Sanna).</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Anicca (Impermanence), Dukkha (Suffering) and Anatta (Non-self) are to be cultivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Wisdom is earned by Samadhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Six experiences are attained by meditaion.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">They are Dibbacakkhu (the Divine eye) ; Dibbasota (the Divine ear) ; Paracitta Vijanana (knowledge of knowing other's attitude) ; Pubbanussati (Recollection of former births) ; Power to control passions and iddhi (psychic power).</sent>
				<sent id ="124">In ancient times, it was also prevalent to make pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The Buddhist monks and lay devotees visit these great places of pilgirmages with honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Besides, there are other places of pilgrimages, such as Savatthi, Vesali, Nalanda, Rajagaha, Kosambi etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Such places for pilgrimage in Bangladesh are viharas at Maynamati, Mahastangarh, Paharpur, Sitakunda and Sahore of Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Outside India and Bangladesh, there are also centres of pilgrrmage in Srilanka, Myanmar, Tibet, China, Thailand and Japan.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Patiomokkha assembly in which the Bhikkhus gather together in a special manner at fortnight the dark fortnight and the bright fortnight, religious discourses and discussion are held.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The assemblage encourages unity among its members and maintain the purity.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Any offence that has been committed by a Bhikkhu within the period of this time following the last meeting of the Sangha is disclosed at this meeting.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">After this, amendment has to be made by confession.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The Buddha, after preaching His first sermon at Sarnath, came to Rajagaha where He introduced most of the Patimokkha rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Offences of the Bhikkhus are of various kinds of which the four Parajikas (Four serious transgressions) are fatal for which the accused Bhikkhu is expelled from the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">These are murder of human being, sexual intercourse etc. Minor offences are those which require only to, express regret.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">These are regarded against the moral rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Of them, telling a lie, rough use to any Bhikkhu, greed, abusing any one, travelling alone with the nun (Bhikkhuni) etc. are to be mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The Pacittiya (offence) rules, as depicted in the Patimokkha also mention the general instructions with regard to bed, seats, robes and other requisites of daily life of the Bhikkhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Unlike other, the Bhikkhus have to follow the Sekhiya ( to be trained) rules which are less grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">These orders are introduced to control the moral conduct for the learners.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">These are the instructions how to dress, how to take meal, how to sit, how to walk, how to take bath etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">So to say, these are moral codes of the Bhikkhus who are needed to be self restrained, modest and calm.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The Buddha also advised them to preach the doctrine in their own mother tongue, if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Sexual intercourse, theft, murder of a human being or abetment to murder and exaggeration of one's supernatural power; these are the four serious offences for which the accused Bhikkhu is expelled from the Sanaha.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">There are altogether thirteen Sanghadisesa offencess in the Bhikkhu Patimokkha.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">These are related to sex, speaking bad words, the schism in the Sangha etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">This section consists of two offences relating to the conduct of a Bhikkhu towards a woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The nature of these offences is uncertain whether it is Parajika, Sanghadisesa or Pacittiya.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">A kind of offences which requires a Bhikkhu to abandon the robes or bowls etc. that arise in question considering the size, preparation as directed in the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The number of the Nissagoiya pacittiya is thirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Falsehood, harsh words, slander, quarrels, deceits, oppression, wrong behaviour among Bhikkhus and Bhikkhunis, untimely eating etc. and such other 92 offences.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Four light offences these are lifting ally food by his own from a Bhikkhuni; taking food from a person who has not invited him etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Besides there are certain other rules for maintaining good habits and regulating good behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Despite specific rules, there would have been difference of opinion or problems arising out of disputes.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Cullavagga has provided many rules for Panchayet arbitration and the settlement of disputes.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Senior monks to arbitrate must have some qualities, such as, they should be free from attachment, hatred and delusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">They should give impartial judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The procedure of taking opinion is of three kinds: Secret, Private and Open.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">If the subject matter could be ascertained beyond doubt there is no necessity of taking opinion secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Arrangement of votes among judges is only necessary in case of doubt and controversy.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The process- secrecy means to whisper to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">All the disputes are settled in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Immediately after the settlement of dispute, they get together in the Sima (Boundary) or elsewhere as provided to confess the offences.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The monk asking for penitence would address the Bhikkhu Sangha and call upon to state any allegation, for which he will be prepared to ask for pardon.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The Buddha has given much emphasis on spiritual development of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Unity growing out of strength of weapons does not last long.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">True unity grows from the courtesy and sell-- sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The Buddha advised the Sangha to develop morality by which men in the society are careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">For this, the Sangha develop self reliance and dutifulness and at last proceed towards the goal.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">As a result of their self sacrifice- Nalanda, Ajanta, Flora, Vikramsila, Taxila, Paharpur and Maynamati came into existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Hence, they have contributed much in the development and progress of education, culture and knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">All rules framed by the Buddha for the Sangha are written in the Vinaya Pitaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The Buddha has given stress on inner development of the Sangha so that after His Parinibbana, they would reflect themselves more self reliance.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">When Ajatasattu, the king of Magadha was about to attack the Vajjians, then the Buddha said, As long as the Vajjians had followed the Satta Aparihaniya Dhamma or the Seven Conditions for welfare given to them, nobody could defeat them.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He also framed Seven Conditions for the Sangha by which they are able to acquire matchless strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In this context, the Buddha said.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">I expound to you the Seven Conditions necessary for the welfare of Sangha community.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Assemble at one place frequently and continue the habitual gathering.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Perform the prescribed duties together as the members of the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Adhere to rules prescribed by the state and observe discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Respect, honour and make offering to the elders and listen to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Protect the dignity of women.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Observe the national code of Ethics.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Ensure respect to religious teachers and look after their comfort.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The Buddha has described the Sangha as the highest and best.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Before Parinibbana He told Ananda that the Doctrine preached by Him will be the guiding force of the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Not individuals but the Dhamma and finally the Sangha constitute the highest authority.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Besides the rules of the Bhikkhus, the Buddha has prescribed certain duties and practices for His lay devotees and these are their guidance.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The lay devotees must take refuge in Tisarana (Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha).</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The other course of training for the laities are refraining from killing living beings, from stealing, from leading an unchaste life, from speaking falsehood and from indulging in drinks and merry makings.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">These five precepts are called Pancasilas One is to abstain from killing, theft, lying, sexual indiscipline and intoxication as the principle of Pancasila.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The Buddha combined all these rules to be followed by householders or laities in the Pancasila.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">For example, abstinence from intoxication means that one should refrain from taking all kinds of harmful intoxication, such as liquor, opium, ganza etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">When one is intoxicated to these, normal healthy life is hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Intoxicated persons do great harm to the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">They do not hesitate to do wrong deeds by losing sense of balance through intoxication.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The Buddha therefore asked for refraining from all kinds of intoxication.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Do not use harsh, abusive and sarcastic words.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Do not support those who have wrong views.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Do not be guided by revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Do not cause harm to anyone under influence by anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Do not roam about in the streets at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Renounce all kinds of gambling and avoid the company of those who are intoxicated, given to gambling and adventurous sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Read good books during leisure time.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Rise early in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Do not sleep more.than</sent>
				<sent id ="207">half an hour in the noon.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Be temperate in spending than be a miser.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Always keep company of those who are wiser than you.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">It is sinful to make friendship with thief, flatterer, boastful person and wrong doer.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Never indulge in unnecessary talks.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Keep away frorn enemies in the guise of friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Listen to good words on religious discourse.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Feel happy at the prosperity of friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Protest wrong words against friends, superiors and praise if words are spoken in their reputation.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Always try to do good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Be happy in the happiness of all beings and sorrowful in their sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Provide shelter to one who is fearful.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Do not forsake friends in times of their danger or misfortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Divide your incorne into four parts-the first one for livelihood, the second and third for the activities of self and the family and the fourth as savings for bad days in future.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Support parents in old age.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Uphold the dignity of your clan and make gift in memory of ancestors.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Protect children from evil acts and involve them in good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Help them to learn income-generating education.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Give marriage with suitable persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Show respect to teachers and superiors.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Stand up when you meet them.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Obey their orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Teachers will teach courtesies and tell them what to read and what not to read.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Teachers will praise praiseworthy deeds of students to their relations and save them frorn danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Use dignified and courteous words with the wife and provide her with clothes and ornaments to the best of capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The wife will also look after household affairs properly and be respectful to the husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">She will not waste husband's property and be free from laziness.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Both will lead disciplined life.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Help relations in times of needs and treat them well.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Protect the propertyof relations.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Give courage if they feel afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Never renounce them in times of danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Invite them in festivals and blissful ceremonies.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Give adequate food and salary to employees.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Nurse them well during illness and give them share of good food.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Allow them leisure from time to time.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Employees will rise before the master.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">They will not misappropriate anything from the master, will work well and speak high of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Show respect to the Bhikkhu Sangha and offer services and food.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">During leisure time listen to religious discourses and discussions.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The Bhikkhu Sangha will keep the Dayakas and Dayikas away from sinful acts, offer them advice to remain engaged in good work and wish them well.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">They will propagate those words of religion which were not heard before.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The Bhikkhu Sangha will correct them.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">People will visit temples on the full moon, half moon and dark moonless days for observance of Sila and Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">They will make salutations to Triratna at least twice a day in the morning and the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">If any doubt arises, they will ask advice of the Bhikkhu Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Never deceive any body and be happy with what you will earn.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Do not be engaged in any business involving harm to beings, poison, intoxicating objects, arms and meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Make offering of food during full- moon and other Sabbath days.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Be engaged in meditation during leisure.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Always take refuge of Triratna.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Do not heed to wrong views.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Make gift of medicines.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The Buddha asked for observance of these 12 rules for householders or laity.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">These words have been uttered by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">If these principles and rules are followed, one can lead peaceful life and attain prosperity.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Observance of these rules will be helpful in the advancement towards Nibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Good conduct helps to develop humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Good conduct and self reliance bring the man to high station of life day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">To live in the society, these two are urgently needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Venerable Dharmapala of Srilanka (Ceylon) has written a book.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Gihidina cariya for the laities.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">It has immense value for the learners.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Rise up early in the morning, wash your face and make adoration to the Buddha with the citation of the Tiratana Vandana.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">If the vihara stands at the nearest distance, it is better to pray there.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">If not so, perform the duties at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">After having done the adoration, meditate Metta Bhavana.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Thereafter, take breakfast and be attentive to usual work.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Should clearly wash hand and face before taking meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Should not take food and curry with hand in cooked food.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Should not eat with absent mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Should chew food properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Should leave the seat with the permission of the parents and the elders if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Should not take meal talking with or walking at.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Should ask for the meal if he is hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Should not take meal making a sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Should wash hand and mouth after taking meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Should take meal everyday timely.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Rules for bathing and wearing Should not wear dirty clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Should cleanse the dress when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Should not wear the perspirated clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Should not take bath nakedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Should cleanse the nose, dirty hair and body at the time of bathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Should reduce the nails by cutter.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Rules for walking on the road He should walk to the left on the road and street.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Keep eyes not to touch the person if there is an umbrella in hand, not walk with absent mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Cross the road giving views to the right and left, not take any food walking on the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Help the blind, the old and the infant during the time of crossing the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">He should attend the meeting with clean dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Take seat after salutation to the elders, not speak any thing without the permission of the president, be courteous and carry out the orders of the president, not to talk to side man, not break the silence of the meeting, not to chew the batel-leaf and smoke a cigarette in the meeting, not flog the body and graze legs on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Listen to everybody in the meeting with patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Leave silently if necessary during the meeting.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Rise early in the morning and brush your teeth with brush or branch of Neem tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">It is not courteous to brush teeth in front of people and spit anywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">It is good to take bath in the morning after washing face, hand and feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Then make salutation to the Buddha with clean dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Take refuge in Paricasila by yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Then without wasting time, you should sit for studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">If the school is open, go to school after paying respect to parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Show respect to teachers and superiors.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Do not spit in the classroom and do not indulge in talks.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Do not waste time if you come across the killing of animal and quarrels on way to the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Do not tell lie and use harsh words or quarrel with anyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Take physical exercise some time in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Visit nearby temple at least once a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">If you use cycle, then get down from it if you see Bhikkhu, teacher or superior to show respect in silence.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Be kind to all living beings high or low.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Do not kill animals and hit serpent, froo; insect, butter fly, bird, dog, cat etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">If you see any in danger, try to help.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Avoid serpent, mad dog, bull etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Take refuge of Sila on Uposatha days.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">The people should form association like Rural Development, Village Defence Party, Village Welfare or Buddhist Society in every village or Mahalla.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">All elders and young of the village may be members of the Association.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">There must be certain rules and regulations for the Association.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Everybody should abide by the rules and orders of the Executive Committee.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">You should also obey the rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">There should be a library under the supervision of the Association.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The Association should make arrangements for imparting training in handicrafts and establish cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Night schools for the adults and Nursery for the children may be established to eradicate illiteracy.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Other games may be arranged in place of playing cards and dic.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">There should be provision of punishment for those members who violate the rules of the Association.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">You should accompany your parents to visit your sick relatives and the neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">If possible you should take sap, barley, suger, fruit, milk etc. according to your capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">If the patient is poor you should help him with medicine, diet and money.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">It is good to encourage him by good talk.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Do not take food in the room of the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Don't spend much time there beyond necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">You should not go there if disease is contaminous.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Besides, put off your clothes after visiting a patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">You should wash your face, hands and legs before going to do other works.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">It is a social duty to see the dead body of the relatives and the neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">It is necessary to wear clean dress at the time of seeing dead body and after returning, the dress should be put off and washed.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Express sympathy to the bereaved.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Ask the fellow mate to come to you and give him consolation so that he is not mentally weakened.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Advise him to realize that man is mortal.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Join and participate in the religious performances done for the dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Help in that performances if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Besides the learning and the educaton of the children of cultivator's family, they have to do the work in the agricultural field.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">They have to help their fathers other than learning.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">The cow and the buffalo are the main vehicles to plough the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The children may have sometimes to take care of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">They have to understand whether the cattles are hungry and arrange to have their hunger fully satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">They have to take care of the cow, goat, duck and hen.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">They have to help their fathers and brothers in the cultivation and in the drying of paddy and seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">They have to help their father and mother irrespective of their occupation.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">If the father works in the mill and factory or the workshop attached to residence, the children have look after the business within the capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">They have to ask the father for help; Inspite of father's silence.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">For this, they will acquire experience in the field of such work.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">The children should be named according to the Buddhist faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">They should think over the matter and discuss the same with their father and mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Parents, generally give the name to their children as their forefathers had given them.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Buddhist festivals are held in different full-moon days which are Buddha Purnima, Asahri Purnima, Kathinacivara dana, Chaitra Sankranti and Bengali New Years day.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">All should do all the religious and social duties, rejoice by taking part in all the functions such as, birth day, marriage ceremony, offering to the dead relatives, Buddha kirtan and National festivals and Independance day.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The Buddhist students are to be proud for taking birth in a Buddhist family.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Do not bow down to injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">If you realize your mistake confess them at once.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">At that time there occured a famine and epidemic at Vesali.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">The Buddha went there at the request of Licchavi king.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">It rained heavily after the drought for a long time as soon as He reached there.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">At this, the epidemic, dead body and garbages were flooded away.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">There after, the Buddha ordered Ananda to recite the Ratanasutta.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Peace and prosperity came again at Vesali.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">The inhabitants of Vesali had erected so many cetlyas at the honour of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Once the Buddha summoned the Vajjis to attend and advised them at Sarandada cetiya, the Satta Aparihaniya Dhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Satta Aparihaniya Dhamma mean the seven inevitable duties or the Seven Conditions for welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">In ancient India, the Vajji proved themselves unconquerable and prosperous nation by following the Seven Conditions for welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">The Vajjis constituted united nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">They would hold meetings when the problem had arisen to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">According to procedure, they would elect the President in the meeting.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">After then, they would discuss the problems one by one with the order of the President.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Later, they would review the matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">They would give consent after the review.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">The President would then try to know the views for and acainst.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">After that they would discuss both the views.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">When everybody would agree, the President would give consent.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">All the members would take decision after the procedure and work unitedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">In this way, they would leave the seat of the meeting after taking decision.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">As a result, there was no opportunity of giving note of dissent.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">So the Vajjis were renowned for this unity.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">The Buddha preached the Satta Aparihaniya Dhamma or the Seven conditions for national welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Those who attend the meetings regularly and unite themselves prosper.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Those who attend the meeting unitedly, live in unity and when the reason for taking decision for new agenda arises they sit themselves and are able to acquire matchless strength and are never defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Those who do not introduce mal-practices in the society or in the state, do not discard the rules made by the forefathers and abide by those rules properly, are able to acquire matchless strength and never suffer defeat.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Those who respect, venerate, honour and make offerings to the elders, prosper.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">And those who deem it fit to obey the orders of the elders, certainly prosper in the family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Those who do not seize the wives and the unmarried girls of others, do not catch them in their houses and do not misbehave with them, are able to acquire matchless strength and never suffer defeat.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Those who protect the cetiyas made by their forefathers inside or outside the village and adore regularly, will find their prosperity as inevitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">And those who spend all the wealth reserved for the same, must prosper and never defeat.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Those who are properly generous and give charity to the Arhants and virtuous Bhikkhus, protect them and arrange everything for their happiness and means, acquire matchless strength and never suffer defeat.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">And those who serve the Arhants that would not come to them, arrange to bring them and give food to them prosper.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Again, those who inquire about the safety of the Arhants and virtuous Bhikkhus residing at their own villages, acquire matchless strength, in the family and society.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">It ceases downfall.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
