<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-budh-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.478</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">251</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3402</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1284</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t46">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The Jataka is the former birth stories of Gautama Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">One cannot become Buddha at one birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">For this, he has to meditate for many births.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He has to pass many aeons having been born as Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In this way, he has to purify, himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">At last, he becomes Enlightendar the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">When he becomes the Buddha, he acquires the knowledge of former births.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Gautama Buddha became possessed of that power.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">He would tell His disciples the Jataka stories with reference to admonition.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">With this, He would show the path to Nibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">He converted His father, king Suddhodana after delivering the Dhammapala Jataka.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">He also settled the dispute caused between the Sakiyas and Koliyas in delivering the Phandana, Daddabha, Latukika and Rukkhadhamma Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Jataka is composed in Pali.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It is said that the regions of Magadha is the origin of Pali.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Oriya, Bengali and Asami languages have conformity with Pali.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">This Pali language is extended upto the South-East Asia, namely, Sriianka (Ceylon), Myanmar, Thailand etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">It generally indicates that the number of Jataka stories is These stories are valuable assets of the Buddhist literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The influence of the Jataka is discernible not only in Buddhist literature but also in the world literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">There stands no evidence of written literature in the world before the existence of Jataka.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">These were prevalent in ancient India to give moral advice at the time of conversation.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Some deem it creditable that such kind of tales and episodes were prevalent and such description may bear virtuousness and filial piety but elaborate stories existed in the Jataka only.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">At first, the Buddha tried to bring the chain of discipline by delivering Jataka stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">He endeavoured to subdue the mischievous and protect the honest on the basis of Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He preached the Jataka stories to eradicate the defilements of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Lastly, the concept of the Jataka goes far away to Africa and Europe through Central Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">On the other side Srilanka, Java, Mongolia, Korea, Japan etc. were influenced by the Jataka through India.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">So, the influence of the Jataka reflects on all languages of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">When Ishap and Dekameran were writing the tales, they borrowed a good deal of materials from the Jataska.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">It also reflects its influence on the Arabian Nights.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">In this way, it influences the modern literature also.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Brihatkatha, Pancatantra, Kathasaritsagar are also influenced by the Jataka.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The fact remains that Jataka remains that Jataka enriches the ancient literature of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Jataka bears moral.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">So many examples of kindness to living beings exist there.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Rataka supplies so many morals of fraternity and universal brotherhood for all men without distinction.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">It focuses discovery of ancient geographical sites, politics and social rules carrying historical background.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It described the stories againt slavery.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">These stories gave rise to Buddhist art.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">So many Jataka stories are described in the paintings of Ajanta.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Jataka stands against superstition.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">So many Bengali words originated from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Besides, amusement, recreation, various kinds of games and sports, sea-business, description of food, sceneries of the villages, conditions of the mass are depicted in the Jataka.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The morals of the Jataka bring the well-beings of the mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">It bears thorough analysis for the Judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Social indiscrepancies are sketched and solutions are also indicated there.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It narrates the various frauds of the moral of each Jataka is precious as jewel.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The beauties of these morals will be bright at all times.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The mind of the reader, after reading the Jataka, is full of calmness.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The story is finished we feel contentment.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The whole story is reflected in one or two sentences with its moral.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">We inspiration to read again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The morals of the Jatakas are not only counsels but they are utterances of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">For this fact, all the followers and readers follow the morals with delight.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">It appears to us that when Jataka is described, as it were, the Buddha was telling some of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Some Jatakas, it seems, are alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The Bodhisattva is supposed to appear.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">He sacrificed a lot and went through immense sufferings for the benefit of the mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He delivered the different doctrines with easy style in the model of speaking.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">So many problems are solved if we keep in memory the morals.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">We get inspiration to do well for the friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">We remember the moral of the Kalakanni Jataka , A friend is in need is a friend indeed.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Onece upon a time when Brahmadatta was reigning in Benares, the Bodhisattva was a treasurer of great renown.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">He had a friend whose name was Kalakanni.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He had played together with the Bodhisattva during childhood and had gone to the same school.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">As years passed, Kalakanni sank into great distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">From that time, he took shelter in Bodhisattva's house, The Bodhisattva employed him with pay as a care-taker of his property.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Kalakanni stayed with Bodhisattva and did all the business.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It was a common thing to hear in the house, stand up, curse or sit down, curse or Have your dinner, curse.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Kalakanni means curse.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">One day the treasurers other friends called on him alone and said, Name Kalakanni is not good to hear, as such ill name would even scare the Yama.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">It is also an observation with ill omen.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The man is not your social equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">You are showing more honour to the miserable wretch, dogged by misfortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Why should you have anything to do with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Not so, replied Bodhisattva, a name only serves to denote a man and the wise do not measure a man by his name nor is it proper to have superstitous about mere sounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">How can I throw him for his mere names sake, the friend with whom I made friendship?</sent>
				<sent id ="77">One day, the Bodhisattva departed to visit a village for some business.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">He would have to spend there one night.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">So he left Kalakanni in charge of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Hearing of his departure, certain robbers made up their mind to break into the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Arming themselves, they surrounded the house in the night time.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">But Kalakanni had a suspicion that the burglars might be expect When he knew that they had come, he ran about as if to rouse the servants and the followers, biding one sound in the conch, another beat in the drum, till he had the whole house full of noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The robbers thought that the treasurer, had come and the house was full of servants and followers.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">If not, why there was so very loud up roar?</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Perhaps, the master had returned.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Flinging away their stones, clubs and weapons, they fled away.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The followers of Bodhisattva had praised Kalakanni for his intelligence at the sight of all the discarded weapons lying round the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">If the house had not been patrolled by one so wise, the robbers would have plundered the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">When the Bodhisattva came from the village, they hastend to tell him the whole story.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The Bodhisattva said the members of his family and the friends, You wanted me to get rid of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">If I had taken your advice and got rid of him, I would lose everything and would be beggar.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">It is not the name but the heart within that makes the man.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">A friend is he that seven steps will go.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">To help us, twelve attest the comrade true, A fortnight or a month's tried loyalty Makes kindred, longer time a second self.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Then how shall I, who all these years have known My friend, be wise in driving curse away?</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Once upon a time when Brahmadatta was reigning in Benares, the Bodhisattva was born of a vulture.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">When he grew up he put his parents, now old and dim of eye, in a vulture's cave on the mountain and fed them by bringing flesh of dead cow and the like.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">At that time a certain hunter laid snares for vultures all about a Benares cemetery.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">One day the Bodhisattva seeking for flesh came to the cemetery and caught his foot in the snares.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He did not think of himself but remembered his old parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">How will my parents live now?</sent>
				<sent id ="102">I think they will die, ignorant that I am caught helpless and destitute, wasting away in that hill cave.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">How will the old folks manage now within the mountain cave?</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Who will save them?</sent>
				<sent id ="105">For I am fastened in a snare, cruel Nilaya's slave ; no chance to get rid of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Vulture, what strange lament of yours are these my ears that reach?</sent>
				<sent id ="107">I never heard or saw a bird that uttered human speech.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">I tend my aged parents within a mountain cave.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">How will the old folks manage now that I've become your slave?</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The hunter spoke the fourth stanza : Carrion a vulture sights across a hundred leagues of land ;</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Why do you fail to.see a snare and net so close at hand?</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The Bodhisattva spoke the fifth stanza ; When ruin comes upon a man and fates his death demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He fails to see a snare or net although so close at hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">I am impressed that you have thought about your parents but not for yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Go, tend your aged parents within their mountain-cave, go, visit them in peace, you have from me the leave you crave.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">You are kind being a hunter, so happiness be thine, with all thy kith and kin.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">I am too going back to my old parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Then the Bodhisattva; freed from the fear of death, joyfully gave thanks to the hunter, took his mouthful of meat from the cemetery and went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Those who are respectful to parents and truthful are saved even from worst danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Once upon a time when Brahmadatta was reigning in Benares, the Bodhisattva was his priest a man given to charity, good works and the five precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The king honoured him beyond the other brahmins.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">One day the Bodhisattva thought the king shows honour to me beyond other brahmins and has manifested his great regard by making me his spiritual director.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">But is favour due to my goodness or only due to lineage, family, education and accomplishment?</sent>
				<sent id ="124">One day he was leaving the palace, after meeting the king, then the treasurer was distributing money to the public.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Accordingly, he took unbidden a coin from the treasure's counter and went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Such was the treasurer's veneration for the brahmin that he sat perfectly still and said not a word.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The next day, the Bodhisattva took two coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">But still the treasurer made no remonstrance.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The next third day the Bodhisattva took a whole handful ` coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The treasurer cried, Lord, that you have robbed his Majesty and he shouted out three times, I have caught the thief who robs the Treasury.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">A crowd of people rushed from every side and catching Bodhisattva said, Ah, you have long been passing as a model of goodness.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Now you have stolen.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Let us take him to the king for justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">But as the Bodhisattva was being brought in bonds before the king, he came where a snake charmer was exhibiting a snake which he had caught by the tail and the throat and tied round his neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Seeing this, the Bodhisattva begged the man to desist for the snake might bite him and cut his life short.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Brahmin replied the snake-charmer, this is a good and well behaved cobra.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He is not wicked like you, who for your wickedness and misconduct are - being hauled off in custody.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The Bodhisattva thought to himself, even cobra, if he does not bite is called good;</sent>
				<sent id ="139">how much more must this be the case with a man who has observed precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">So precepts are the best of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">There is nothing superior to precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Then the Bodhisattva was brought before the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Is he a thief who has been robbing Majsty's treasury' said the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The officials said, 'Your Majesty, this brahmin has robbed the Majesty's treasury'.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The king ordered, Away with him to execution.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The Bodhisattva then said, Sir, I am not a thief.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The king said, Then why did you take the money?</sent>
				<sent id ="148">What is your want?</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Then the Bodhisattva replied, I think precepts is the highest and most excellent thing in the -world.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Even the cobra, when it does not bite is simply called, good.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">So precepts are the most excellent virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Then in praise of gooness the Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">uttered the stanza which means thus: Precepts lead to the highest merits.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Nothing can be equal with precepts in heaven, earth or hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The cobra does not bite because of influence of precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">So precepts is the best virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The Bodhisattva pacified the king with the truth of precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The king also understood the fact that the brahmin was perfectly righteous.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The Bodhisattva also experimented himself saying the goodness is the highest.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">He, abjuring all lusts and renouncing the world for the hermit's life, went to the Himalayas, where he earned the five knowledges (PancaAbhinna) and the Eight Attainments (Attha.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Samapatthi) by.Cultivating goodness and concentration.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The Bodhisattva passed away in the oblige and thereafter was born in the Brahma realm.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Goodness is the highest among the birth, lineage and family.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Once upon a time, while Brahmadatta reigned in Benares, the Bodhisattva was born as his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">After the death of his father, the Bodhisattva became king and ruled in righteousness.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">His mother was a passionate woman, cruel and ill tongued.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The son wished to admonish his mother but he felt, he must not do anything so disrespectful.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">So he kept on the look out for a chance of dropping a hint.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">One day he went down into the grounds and his mother went with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">A blue jay screeched on the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The bird is very beautiful but its voice is very harsh.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">At this all his companions stopped their ears, crying, What a harsh; voice, what a dangerous voice!</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Don't make that noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">While the Bodhisattva was walking through the park with his mother and a company of players, a cuckoo, perched amid the thick leaves of Sala tree, saying with a sweet note.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">All the bystanders were delighted at her voice, clasping their hands and stretching them out, they besought her, Oh, what a nice song! what a sweet voice!</sent>
				<sent id ="176">sing away bird, sing away!</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The Bodhisattva noting these two things, thought that here was a chance to drop a hint to the mother, Mother, said he, when they heard jays cry on the road, everybody stopped their ears, when the cuckoo sang with a sweet note, all were delighted and praised.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Then the Bodhisattva uttered the following verses; The cuckoo is black and not beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">But all like it for sweet voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Seeing the difference between voices of the jay and cuckoo, man likes to be sweet tongued.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Because everybody likes sweet voice and wants to live as dear person in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">When the Bodhisattva had admonished his mother with these verses, he won her over to his way of thinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Ever afterwards she followed the right course of living.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Afterwards the Bodhisattva passed away according to his deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Quality is more precious than appearance.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Once upon a time a king named Kalabu reigned at Benares.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">At that time the Bodhisattva was born in a brahmin family.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The Bodhisattva was named Kundalakumara.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">When he was of age, he went to Taxila for learning and he acquired there knowledge of all subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">He returned honie and settled down as a householder.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">On the death of his parents, he was the owner of vast treasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Looking at his pile of treasure he thought, my kinsmen who amassed this treasure are all gone without taking it with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Now it is for me to own it and in my turn to depart.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He gave all his wealth to the virtuous persons that deserved alms giving and entered the Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">He adopted there the ascetic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">There he dwelt living on wild fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">In the forest, no salt is found.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Hence, the ascetic has to come in the inhabited parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Kundalakumara also descended to the inhabitance for the sake of procuring salt and made his way to Benares.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">He took up his abode in the royal park and the next day he came to the door of the commander -in-chief.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He being pleased with the ascetic for the propriety of the Bodhisattva's department, brought him into the house and fed him with better food.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Then the commander-in-chief arranged to take up his abode in the royal park.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Now one day king Kalabu came to the park surrounded by a company of dancers.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The nautch girls were dancing and singing.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The king laid his head on the lap of a favourite of the harem and fell asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">On seeing the king fall asleep, the nautch girls cast aside their lutes and stopped their singing.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">They began to walk in the park.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">They in wandering about came upon the Bodhisattva seated under the Sala tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Then they went to him and wished to hear something doctrine.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The Bodhisattva preached the doctrine to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The king woke up and not seeing them asked, Where are those nautch girls?</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The reply was that they have gone away and are sitting in attendance on Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The king in a rage seized his sword and went off in haste to the Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The nautch girls saw the king coming in haste.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">They pacified him and rescued the Bodhisattva from the death.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The king came and stood by the Bodhisattva and asked, What doctrine are you preaching?</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The doctrine of patience, your Majesty, replied the Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The king said, What is this patience?</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The Bodhisattva said, He who is not angry, when men abuse him and strike him and revile him.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The king said, I will see now the reality of your patience, Saying this, the king summoned the executioner.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">He in the way of his office took an axe and a scourge of thorns and attended.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The king ordered the executioner, Give him two thousand stripes.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">He began to give the Bodhisattva stripe.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The Bodhisattva's outer and inner skins were cut through to the flesh and the blood flowed.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Then the king asked again, What doctrine do you preach monk?</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The doctrine of patience your Highness, replied the Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Your fancy that my patience is only skin deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">It is not skin deep, but is fixed deep with my heart, where it cannot be seen by you, Sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The king then ordered the executioner to cut off both the hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">This was done.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The king ordered to cut his feet and his feet were chopped off.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Again the king asked the Bodhisattva, Where does the doctrine of patience exist?</sent>
				<sent id ="233">He replied, It is not there, but it is deep seated somewhere else.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The king said, Cut off his nose and ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The executioner carried out the order.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">His whole body was covered with blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Again the king asked of his doctrine.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The reply was the same that the patience is not seated in the tips of his nose and ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">It is deep seated within his heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The king said, Lie down, false monk, and then exalt your patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">And so saying, he struck the Bodhisattva above the heart with his foot and be took himself off.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">When the king was gone, the commander-in chief wiped off the blood from the body of the Bodhisattva, putting bandages on the extremities of his hands, feet, ears and nose.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">He uttered the verse gently addressing the Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Who so cut off thy nose and ear, and chopped off foot and hand, With him be wrath, heroic soul, but spare, we pray, this land.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The Bodhisattva on hearing this uttered the second stanza : Long live the king whose cruel hand my body thus has maried, Pure souls like mine such deeds as these with anger never regard.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">And just as the king was leaving the garden and at the very moment when he passed out, of the range of the Bodhisattava's vision, the mighty earth split into two and Avici seized upon the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">He burnt into ashes in the Avici.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The Bodhisattva died on that same day.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The commander-in-chief, other royal personages andthe country men performed the Bodhisattva's obsequies.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">After the death, the Bodhisattva went straight to the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The Bodhisattvas sacrificed their lives for the benefit of others without having anger and hatred.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
