<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-budh-10</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.23</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">472</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5854</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1849</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t38">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">From very ancient time spiritual thinkers had preached their doctrines.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They preached the religions for the benefit of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">They visited different places at the time of preaching the doctrines.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">They left many memorials and reminiscences in those places.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Those places later on became the holy sites for the followers and the visitors.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Buddhism is also a very ancient religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The preacher of this religion is Gautama Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">He travelled to many places during His preaching the Dhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The names of those places are mentioned in the Tripitaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Those places became famous during the lifetime of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Most of them have been treated as the holy places.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Buddhist holy places, are divided into two parts: One is the places of great pilgrimage and the other is the places of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">So many events are connected with these pilgrimages.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The places of great pilgrimage of four events are Lumbini the birth place of Tathagata; Buddhabaya, the place of Supreme Enlightenment;</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Sarnath, the place of delivering the First Sermon and Kusinaraer Kusinagar, the place of Great Demise.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Besides, the Buddha visited many places for delivering the Dhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">His disciples also travelled different places for preaching the Buddah's doctrine directed by the Buddha Himself or on certain occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Many monasteries, stupas and pillars were built there.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Being connected with memoirs of Great disciples, these are also treated as the places of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Kapilavastu, Rajagaha, Vesali, Sankula forest, Kosambi etc. are noteworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Apart from these, there are also some places where the Buddha Himself did not visit but Stupas, Pillars, Vihartts, Buddhist colleges and Universities were built in course of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">These historical sites are also important in the cultural heritage of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Of them Ajanta, Ellora, Vikramsila, Taxila, Purushpur, Sitakat Vihara, Maynamati, Kutilti Mura, Ananda Vihara, Salvan Vihara, Tiratana Stupa, Paharpur, Mahastangarh and Vasu Vlhara are famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">If the seekers travel these places they become acquaintance with the signs of past greatness.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">As a result, they acquire practical knowledge of the Buddhist heritage.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The seekers look back to the past and think of contribution of kings and nobles for Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The pilgrims are imbued with piety and sanctity.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">They try to acquire merit or virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">So it is helpful for him to attain Nibbana by doing good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Direct knowledge through on the spot visit is better than knowledge acquired from books.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Therefore all Buddhists should pay visit the sacred and historical sites.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Lumbini is situated at Bhagawanpur Tahsil in the district of present Butal in the southern region of Nepal.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The surrounding place is now called Rummindei.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">If one has to visit this place, first of all he has to go to India from Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Therefor he has to proceed Nowgarh by train from Gorakshapur of United Province.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">It is easy to travel by air direct to Ksrthmunda of Nepal.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">There is a high way from Kathmunda to Lumbini.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">There are two preaching Halls (Dharmasala) and three guest houses of Myanmar including the Japanese one.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The Government of Nepal has also built a guest house.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Foreign visitors have to take visa for Vairaba or Kapilavastu.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Siddhartha was born in the Lumbini garden on the full-moon day of Vesakha at 623 B.C.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The worth-seeing sites of this place is Asokan pillar and Rummindei temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Emperor Asoka visited Lumbini second time at twenty years of his coronation.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">He erected a pillar at 250 B.C. in commemoration of Siddhartha's birth-place as well as symbol.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">It is called Asokan pillar.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">As a result, the birth-place of Siddhartha is marked for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The pillar is situated in the western side of the old temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">It is made of one stone.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">A horse image at its top would have a beautiful look as the symbol of the renunciation of Siddhartha.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">We can get the source from Huen Stang's travels.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The top of the pillar is now broken.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">It was not discovered till so many years passed.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Dr. Fuller discovered the pillar and installed again at its own place.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">It is still here.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Lumbini temple is situated by the side of Asokan pillar.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">It is known to the public as Rummindei.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">This temple stands on a small hillock.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The visitors climb there by the flight of stairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The Government of Nepal built it again on the foundation of old temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The old one is equal to the floor of a room in the north of the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">It has a door in the north.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">It has an undivided stone slab bearing the name Siddhartha's birth place.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The slab still continues to stay.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">But the painted pictures on the slab are slightly destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">In it Mayadevi, the mother of Siddhartha was catching the branches of the Sala tree with her right hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The other lady is treated as the picture of Gautami.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">At other side some statues are standing with folded hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The statues are treated as the Brahmas and the gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">A child of the god is in the backside.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Siddhartha, the newly born baby is standing on the lotus a little ahead below.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Lumbini the historical site was covered with the mud for many years.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">When the site is identified and excavated, the painted birth-picture of Siddhartha is found.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Later, it was constructed on the same spot.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The visitors can go there.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">There are stairs to go to the Asokan pillar from the compound of the monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Similar to that, there are stairs to go in the east.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">There is also an old Bo-tree in that side.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The pilgrims worship here.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">There is a pond in the south.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Its margins are tied with.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It is said that soon after Siddhartha was born, Nanda-Upanada, the king of the snakes would cause him to take bath with the stream of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Later, the site was changed into a well.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Just a little distance to the south there was another stupa.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The four presiding deities took Siddhartha in their laps.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The ancient tribes would live surrounded by the ruins.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">In course of time the ruins are mixed with the mud.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">These have been preserved.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The names of three archaeologists as pioneers in the excavation and discovery are mentionable.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">They are Cunningham, Karlail and Dr. Fuller who gave proper information about the discovery.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">It is known from the inscription written on the pillar that this site was the real birth-place of Siddhartha.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The truth is revealed on the basis of this fact.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">A vast garden has been made within the four sides of Lumbini.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Different types of trees have increased the natural beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">There is no dwelling house except the Government offices and guest house inside it.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">UNESCO has contributive funds for its preservation.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Kapilavastu, Kushinagar, Sarnath, Rajagriha Nalanda, Vaisali and Buddha Gaya can be travelled by road from Lumbini, You must go to this pilgrimage if opportunity occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Sakyasirtha Siddhartha attained Buddhahood here.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">For this Buddha Gaya is the mosts acred and auspicious place of the Buddhist world.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Buddha-Gaya is situated in the Bihar province in India and eleven kilometers south west to the Gaya Railway station.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">There is a broad road to run the vehicles.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The road runs through the side of the ancient Neranjana river.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">At present this river is called Phalgu.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Government buses, ekka, tam tam and rickshaws are the main transports to go there.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Buddha-Gaya is the best of all the four great sacred places of the Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Sakya Prince Siddhartha attained supreme Knowledge here at B.C. Since then He was famous in the world as Buddha or Gautama Buddha and this place was named Buddha-Gaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">This peepul-tree under which He became enlightened is considered as Bo-tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">So the virtuous people come to this great holy place from home and abroad to pay homage.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Besides the Buddhists, so many travelers come to visit Buddha-Gaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">In ancient times Buddha-Gaya was called Uruvela.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">As this place is situated on the bank of river Neranjana, it is very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Buddha-Gaya is now a city.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The main attraction of Buddha-Gaya is the large hightened four angled Buddha Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Bo-tree and Vajrasana (Diamond throne) are close to the western surface of the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">This Bo-tree is a historical one.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Siddhartha defeated Mara (Evil spirit) and gained supreme Knowledge taking the seat under this tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">There is a description of this tree in the Lalitavistara.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The picture of Asoka's visit to the Mahabodhi is engraved on the gate of Sanchi built at 2nd century B.C.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Huen Tsang came to India on travel at 7th century A.D. and he saw the Bo-tree and the Vajrasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Siddhartha attained Buddhahood seated on the Vajrasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">From the very early time this Bo-tree has preserved its sanctity all over the Buddhist world.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The old Vajrasana is still preserved under the Bo-tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">It is said that this Vajrasana is made of one undivided stone.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Inside the main temple there is a large Buddha-statue standing on the ground sealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The wearing robe of the statue has been shown with sharp lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The statue is founded on 1.65 metres high from the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The statue is 2 metres in length and 66 metre in breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The Buddhasana (The seat of the Buddha) is 46 metre and is engraved with the statues of lion, elephant and woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">There is an inscription written in Kutila alphabets.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The Bo-tree is attached to the back side of the Mahabodhi Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">So to say, the Bo-tree is to the western side of the Mahabodhi Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Ananda Thera planted one of its branches at the Jetavana vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">That Bo-tree is now called Anandabodhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Bhikkhuni Sanghamitra, the daughter of emperor Asoka went to Srilanka with the southern branch of the Bo-tree and sowed it at Anuradhapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Its plant is carried to all over the Buddhist world.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Even its plants came to Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Big and small stupas, pillars, monuments, high gates and footsteps of the Buddha have increased the beauty of the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The painted footsteps of the Buddha have been kept to the north-west of the Bo-tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">There is a stonewall surrounding the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">At first there were 124 pillars in the wall, 90 pillars have been found out of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">So many events and Jataka stories are painted in the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">There is a Mucalinda lake near the temple of Buddha-Gaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">There would live Mucalinda, the king of snakes and he saved, the Buddha for seven days from the stress of storm.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">At the time of entrance to the main temple of Buddha-Gaya there are five rooms to the left in the over space.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">There are five Buddha-statues of the same pattern in these rooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">There are many advantages for the pilgrims to stay in Buddha-Gaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">All the Buddhist countries have their own temples here.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In addition, there is a Government guest house of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The temples of Srilanka, Japan, China, Tibet, Thailand, Myanmar, Taiwan and Cambodia are built in attractive styles.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Here is a Buddha-statue made by Japan.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The statue seated on the Padmasana in the open air is seen from a long distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">At present a temple of Bangladesh is being made.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The ruin of Sujatadevi's house on the other bank of Neranjana river near Buddha- Gaya existed.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Rajagriha and Nalanda can be visited in a day by motor car and bus.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The Buddhist pilgirms come to Buddha-Gaya and give offering to the Sangha (Sanghadana) in the name of their deceased parents and forefathers.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Some of the Buddhist pilgrims come here and take ordination in the novicehood (Samanera pabbajja).</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Here is an International meditation centre.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It is known from the Asokan stone pillar that emperor Asoka came here at the 10th year of his reign.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Huen Tsang came here on travel at 7th century A.D. Then he saw the Vajrasana under the Bo-tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Cunningham, the famous archaeologist discovered the 12 lower parts of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">There is a museum near the Mahabodhi Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The archaeological materials found in Buddha-Gaya are preserved here.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Sarnath or Isipatana is a very important place in the history of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It is situated on the bank of the river Varuna, 7 kilometres from Varanasi in the United Province (U.P.).</sent>
				<sent id ="164">There is a brick-built wide road from Varanasi to Sarnath.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">There is a railway station near Sarnath.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Here are guest houses and Government dormatory for the pilgrims.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">It is here that on the Asarhi Purnima Day, after His attainment of Bodhi (Enlightenment) the Buddha delivered his First Sermon:</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The five disciples to whom He delivered the Sermon are called Pancavaggiya Sissa (Group of five disciples).</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Their names are Kondenya, Bhaddiya , Vappa, Mahanama and Assajit.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">They were first converted to Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">First of all the Buddha explained them the Dhammacakrapavattana Sutta (Foundation of the Wheel of the Doctrine).</sent>
				<sent id ="172">That day was the full-moon day of Asarhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He preached the Middle Path (Majjhima Patipada) that avoids the two extremes : Self mortification and self-indulgence.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">This is called Noble Eightfold Path (Ariya Atthangika Magga).</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Another name of Sarnath is Isipatana or Migadava.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">It is mentioned in the Buddhist literature- Lalitavistara that five hundred Pacceka Buddha or sanctified bodies of the ascetics had come down here.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">This story of the Buddhist literature is connected with the name of Migadava.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">It is said that Gautama Buddha, in one of His former births, was born here as the leader of the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Then His name was Subarna Mriga (golden- coloured deer).</sent>
				<sent id ="180">King's attendants of Varanasi would hunt here as their own choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The Bodhisattva in the form of Subarna Mriga saved the king from the consequences of sin caused by killing the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Besides the king gave him assurance of safety of lives for all the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">From that time all the deer living there would freely roam with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">For this, it is named Migadava or Mrigadava.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Here the Buddha ordained the treasurer's son Yasa of Varanasi and his fifty friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">These fifty one, Pancavargiya disciples and another four disciples consisting of total 60 were the first formal Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">They are the codified Sangha in the history of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Gautama Buddha sent these 60 Bhikkhus to preach the Dhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Sarnath was the main center of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Hundreds of Bhikkhus would live here together.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Later, the great disciples (Mahasavakas) such as Sariputta, Moggallayana etc. would live here.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It is known from the Huen Tsang's travels that during his stay here the Bhikkhus, the Sangharama of Sarnath were divided into eight sections.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Perhaps, after the Mahaparinibhana of the Buddha, Sarnath gradually became the large Sangharama ( Residence of monks).</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Emperor Asoka came to visit Sarnath soon after his conversion to Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">He first identified the place of Buddha's First Sermon and then he built a large pillar on that place.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The pillar is 21 metres high and at the top there was a bright pinnacle.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The architectural design of the main temple of Sarnath is very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">There is a deer park near the place identified as Migadava.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Here the deer move round without fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Ten acres of land are enclosed with iron wires for the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The ruins of ancient memorials have been discovered nearby.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Very close to it, there is famous Dhameka Stupa.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Its height is about 46 metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The four sides of the Stupa has courtyard with tied region.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The pilgrims recollect the name of Tiratana by rambling.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">It may be that emperor Asoka had built this.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">It is supposed that here is Buddha's relics.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">At present there are Buddha's relics in the main temple at Sarnath.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">An opportunity is given to the pilgrims once in a year to see these relics in the ceremony.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Some other memorials have been found in the ruins surrounded by Sarnath.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The Caukhandi Stupa is a eight-angled old cetiya.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The Buddha met the pancavaggiya Bhikkhus here in the way when he was going to Sarnath from Buddha Gaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Asokan Inscription has also been found at Sarnath.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">This Inscription was written mentioning the punishment for dissension in the Order (Sanghabheda) with a view to giving stress on the unity of the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">In addition to this, the ruins of the monasteries of the Kushana and Gupta period have been found.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">A Buddha-image standing as the Dharmacakramudra.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">(Signs made with fingers in the wheel of the Norme) made at 5th century A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The place of Buddha's deliberation of First Sermon has been identified with this Dharmacakramudra.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">In the year 1913 N. Mun Sing, a lay devotee of Srilanka built the Mulagandhakuti vihara with the top.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The Buddha-statue standing as the Dharmacakrarnudra has been preserved in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">There is a big museum at Sarnath where the precious articles and Buddha-images, Bodhisattva, gods and goddesses of different ages are preserved.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Kusinagar (Pali Kusinara), the scene of Gautama Buddha's Parinibbana (Great decease) is the another holy place of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">It is situated at Kasiya in the district of Gorakshapur of Uttar Pradesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Kusinagar had other names too, viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Kusinara, Kusigrama, Kusavati etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">There is a high way running through Gorakshapur and Kusinagar connecting the Gorakshapur Railway station.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">There is also a guest house at Deuria for the facility of the pilgrims.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The tourists can also go to Kusinagar from Buddha-Gaya and Sarnath by bus.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Kusinagar is one of four great places of Buddhist pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">It was situated, along an important trade route, on the western bank of Hiranyavati.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The present name of this river is Choto Gandaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Nearby was the great Sala forest, a part of which was known as Salavana Upavattana where the great Master passed away (Mahaparinibbana).</sent>
				<sent id ="233">After His Parinibbana the Mallas made arrangements for the funeral paying homage to the remains of the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">They carried the body to the Mukutabandha cetiya and cremated it with full honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Now the site is known as Ramabhara of the present district Gondaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The Mallas erected a stupa over the relics at Kusinara.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Kusinagar became one of the most important centres of Buddhist pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The Emperor Asoka undertook pilgrimage to the site of Parinibbana at Kusinagar and erected a stupa and a pillar at the place.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Huen Tsang visited Kusinagar.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Fa- Hien witnessed the utter ruins and desolation of the city and the district but the monasteries were still extant.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">He also noticed stupas and pillars.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">A Buddhist donor Haribal by name built a Buddha image of 22 hand- long during the reign of Kumargupta of Gupta dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">It was an image in Parinibbana style.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Nearby is a big stupa.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">During excavation a copper plate of Parinibbana cetiya was found which identifies the place as Kusinagar.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Here is an other temple Mathakaur by name.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">A Buddha image is kept in this temple, which testifies to the reign of Kalcuri dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Ajatasattu was alive eight years, after the Buddha had attained Parinibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">He took the portion of relics of the Buddha and erected two stupas at Kusinagar and Rajgir ( Pali Rajagaha).</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The works were done under his direct supervision.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">One can go by road Kusinagar, Kapilavastu and Lumbini from Sarnath.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Rajagriha is situated at Patna district in the Bihar province of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">The present name of Rajagriha is Rajagir.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Railway communication is connected with Baktiarpur station.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">There is also broad way from Buddha-Gaya to Rajgir.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Gautama Buddha spent Vassavasa three times in Rajgir.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Rajgir had other names too viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Vasumati, Vaidratpur, Girivraja, Kusagrapur, Rajagriha and Rajgir.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Rajgir is encircled with hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Those hills are Vaibhara, Veplulla, Ratna, Chattasaila, Udaya and Sona.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Rajgir was the capital of king Bimbisara of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Bimbisara was Contemporary to Buddha and His great devotee.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">He did much for development of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Bimbisara made offering of Venubana garden to the Buddha and His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Later its name was Venuvana vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Venuvana vihara is situated to the south of Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">It is mentioned in the account of Huen Tsang's travel.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Nearby is a hot spring.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Bimbisara's son Ajatasattu was at first-against the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">But afterwards he was converted into a great devotee.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Under his patronage the first Buddhist Council was held to collect the messages of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">This Council was held in front of Saptaparni cave of Vaibhara hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">There is a ruin of king Bimbisara's prison.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Here he died being arrested by his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">On way to Chatta hill is also seen the site of physician Jivaka's mango grove.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">The Pali literature mentions the architectural development of Rajagaha.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Though it is encircled with five hills, the city is surrounded by two big and strong boundary walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The city plan also presents a beautiful architectural design.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">There are ruins of Nalanda University situated not far from Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The ruins of cultural heritage of ancient time are preserved at museum.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">There are Saptaparni cave, Gridrakut hill, Venuvana vihara, the ruins of king Bimbisara's palace, Jivaka's Mango grove, Jaina pilgrimage, Hindu sacred place and Hot spring.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Besides, the Japanese Buddhists have erected a Peace Pagoda at the top of the hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">One can reach the Peace Pagoda on hill-top on foot or by electrically- operated rope-way.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Rajgir hill and roads below are very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Afforestation is being done in the Rajgir hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">That is why beauty of Rajgir is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Vaisali (Pali Vesali) is situated in the district of Mozaffarpur under Bihar province.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Vesara is the present name of Vaisali.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">There is a. road passing through Rajagriha and Buddha-Gaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">The pilgrims have to go there by road.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">During the Buddha's time Vaisali was the capital of the Vajjian confederacy.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">It was one of the six chief cities of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Vaisali owes to its name being the capital of the king Visala whose date is unknown.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">This-confederacy was constituted with eight clans who represented all the matters done by the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Of them, Licchavis were majority in the formation of Government and supreme power was vested on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Hence, this confederacy was called Licchavi constituency.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">The Mahavagga, an original text of the Tripitaka mentions that there were 7707 palaces, Kutagaras (Privy councils), pleasure gardens and ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The Buddha visited Vaisali several times during His missionary life and gained a large number of converts and devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">He passed there Vassavasa also (Rainy retreat).</sent>
				<sent id ="300">He with His disciples accepted the invitation of Ambapali (Amrapali), a royal prostitute.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">The Buddha proclaimed the day of His Parinibbana here.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">After the Parnibbana of the Buddha, the Licchavis built a stupa on the relics of the Master.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">There is a place named Raja Visalaka garh at Vaisali.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Aarchaeologists think that it is the wall of the royal palace in the city.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Fa-Hien and Huen Tsang visited Vaisali.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">They noticed the place in more or less the same condition of ruins.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">To the north of Visalaka garh at a place called Kolau, there is a pillar with lion statue.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Nearby stand the Asokan rock pillars.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Huen Tsang found it.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">The Asokan pillars are also seen at Rampurba, Lauria, Avaraj, Nandangarh and Kolau.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">During the time of pilgrimage, emperor Asoka erected these pillars.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">This is considered to be path way of Dharmajatra from Pataliputra to Lunahini, Vaisali is also the place of pilgrimage of the Jainas.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Because, the founder of Jainisni-Mahavira was born here.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Ajanta is situated in the northern frontier of Hyderabad under the Nizam territory.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">The Ajanta caves have been excavated at a distance of 101 kilometres north to Aurangabad district under present Maharastra territory and 7 kilometres far from the village Phadarpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Its distance is only 54 kilometres from Jalgaon.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Ajanta has a link-road of motor communication with both of Aurangabad and Jalgaon.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Though there is no arrangement to stay near the Ajanta caves, yet there are Government guest house and Bancylo at a distance of 7 kilometres at Phadarpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">There was no direct connection of life of Gautama Buddha with Ajanta.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">But the pictures painted in the caves are closely related to the life of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">The sculptures of Ajanta and the pictures painted on the wall in the caves have highly attracted the people of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">The hills of Ajanta are signified with the natural beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Buddhist monks have painted the Jataka stories, full of artistic taste in the lonely caves.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">They have carved the hills that are painstaking for access and have painted the present and former lives of the Buddha on the walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">There are 32 caves at Ajanta.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Of them, there are 28 monasteries and 4 cetiyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">The caves of Ajanta were not engraved by the same artists at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">It has so many pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">To judge the art it may be seen that the time of engraving the caves is probably from 200 B.C. to 7th century A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Those painting works are called Ajanta Frescos.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">The paintings of Ajanta were not done only with the help of the kings, but the Buddhist monks had contributed financial assistance and made untiring efforts in the completion.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">It is known from engraved inscription that the expenditures of painting for the cave no.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">26 was donated by Sraman Buddhabhadra and his disciples Bhadrabamdhu and Dharmadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">But nothing is known about their lives and career.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">It is roughly estimated that the painting of 6 caves were done from 2 years before the Christ to 4oo years A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Then the Buddha-images were not engraved.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">In the above six caves there is no Buddha-image.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">After that, at the time of flourishing Mahayana Buddhism, Philosoper Asanga would live here.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">At that time the picture of the Buddha was first introduced here.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">During 9th and 10th centuries Ajanta Was abandoned.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">About one thousand years later, in 1817 a group of soldiers made a temporary cantonment on the other bank of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">They saw arches in rows and climbed up the hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">They were astonished in discovering Ajanta and hence-forth the people of the world came to know it.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">So many Jataka stories have been painted at Ajanta, such as, Sanghapala Jataka, Mriga Jataka, Mahajanakai Jataka, Sibi Jataka, Champeya Jataka, Khantivadi Jataka, Vidhurapandita Jataka, Saradanta Jataka, Shyama Jataka etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Besides Jatakas, there are other paintings, such as Avalokitesvara Padmapani, Buddha and Mara, the birth- episode of Gautama, Sariputra, the expedition of Bijoy Singh to Ceylon, Rakshasi and Nalagiri suppressed by Buddha etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">There are so many paintings of stories like these.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The ceilings of the caves of Ajanta are plain.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Some of them are semi-round.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Besides, there are pillars also.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">The engraved statues in the floor under the ceilings and in front of the entrance to the gate are very fine.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">The paintings on the walls are also mentionable.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">These paintings are excellent in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">So many Albums have been published at home and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Sravasti is situated on the bank of the river Aciravati between the boards of Gonda and Bairach districts of Uttar Pradesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">It has been identified with Sahet-Mahet.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">It is reached by a Pucca motorable road from Balarampur Railway station on the North- Eastern Railway.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">There are guest house and the rest house for the pilgrims.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Sravasti (Pali Savatthi) was the capital of ancient Kosala.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">During the time of the Buddha, Kosala was one of the sixteen great kingdoms (Mahajanapadas) of Northern India.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Here the Buddha spent Vassavasa many times.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Being situated on the main trade routes, Sravasti had become a large centre of imports and exports.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Many rich men lived here.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">During the Buddha's time, Prasenjit was the king of Kosala.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">There were three viharas in Sravasti namely-Jetavana, Purbarama and Rajakarama.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">The garden (Jetavana) was very nice place.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">At that time a very rich merchant (Mahasetthi) Sudatta, also called Anathapindika was living in Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">He had become a Buddhist.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Agrasravaka Sariputra selected the garden owned by prince Jeta, the son of Prasenjit, as the best place for vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Sudatta made a request to the prince for the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">The prince however, agreed to sell his garden on the condition that the merchant should cover the required land with gold gems.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Sudatta was prepared for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Gold coins were spread on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Sudatta constructed a big monastery called Jetavana vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">It is known from the Tibetan source that there were 60 big halls and 60 small rooms in the Jetavana vihara:</sent>
				<sent id ="375">The main gate of the vihara was built by prince Jeta.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Within it, there existed Mahagandhakuti, Karorimandalamala, Kosambakuti and Candanamala etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">There were so many trees here, that it looked like forest from distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">The relics of Sariputta and Moggallayana were kept here.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Later the emperor Asoka transferred it to another place and created Stupas.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">The Purbarama vihara was built by Visakha, the rich lady disciple of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">She was the daughter of Dhanan.jaya</sent>
				<sent id ="382">banker and wife of Punnavaddana.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">One day Visakha went to Jetavana to hear the Dhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">There she kept away her valuable necklace.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Ananda Thera picked it up and returned to Visakha.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">She was highly pleased and wanted to build a vihara after selling the ornament.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">But she did not find any purchaser for the valuable necklace and kept it herself paying the equal price.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">So she constructed the Purbarama vihara with the money.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">This monstery was double storeyed and had several rooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">It was built in accordance with a design given by Moggallayana Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">The third monastery called Rajakarama was constructed under the orders of king Prasenjit.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">It was built at the request of her chief queen Mallikadevi.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Later on, it was named Mallikararma.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Saketa was situated near by Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Here was a dense forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">King Prasenjit would go there for hunting.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Gabampati, the disciple of the Buddha lived here.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">On hearing the Ordination of the Buddha Theri Sujata attained Arhant here.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Asoka made pilgrimage to Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">He made construction of two high pillars of 21 metre high to the south of Jetavana vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">The western pillar was surmounted by a cakra (wheel) and the eastern one by the figure of a bull.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">Fa-Hien and Huen Tsang visited the place and had also described several damaged Stupas.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Jetavana was repaired during the reign of Gupta dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">In the year 1863 General Cunningham excavated some mounds of Sahet- Mahet (Sravasti).</sent>
				<sent id ="405">In the year 1876 he resumed excavation and identified Gandhakuti.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">The Archaeological Department of the Government of India made a thorough excavation in the years 1907-08 and 1910-11 and preserved all the valuable signs of antiquities.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Vikramsila was a famous Buddhist monastery as well as a University.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">This monastery was built by Dharmapala, the great king of Pala dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">The Bengalees reached the peak in national welfare and glory.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">The site is still unknown.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Some think that it was situated at Vikrampur near Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Other scholars are of opinion that it was situated on the Pathorghat mountain by the side of the Ganges, near Bhagalpur of Bihar province.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Then this ancient region was called Anga, that is, Bhagalpur including Munger.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">India was then divided into sixteen Janapadas (Settlement).</sent>
				<sent id ="415">The king Dhrarmapala founded the Vikramsila monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Another name or title of Dhrmapala was Vikramsil.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Nalanda, Vikramsila and Odantapur viharas were situated side by side.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Students for higher education used to come from home and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Even the learners from China, Japan, Tibet, Turkistan, Gandhara and other Asian countries used to study there.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The number of teachers was They taught the Prajna-paramita, Kriya (rituals), grammar and Nyayasastra.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">The Head of this University was called Vajracarya.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">The first Vajracarya was Buddhajnanapada.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Taranath's history mentions that there were twelve Vajracaryas after him.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">There were 108 rooms in the main building surrounded by six entrances with the four walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Six Dvarapanditas made admission of the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Debates were held among the scholars of different communities.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Most of the Pala kings patronized the monastery and during their reign it flourished.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">In the 10th century A.D. its fame spread all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Its place was next to Nalanda University.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Atish Dipankar, a renowned scholar was the Vice-Chancellor of this University.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">During his stay in the position, He gained world wide recognition for scholarship.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">During his time three thousand Bhikkhus resided in the monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Then a war between king Karna of Kanauj and king Nayapal had taken place.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Sometimes Nayapal and sometimes Karna won the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Atish Dipankar himself made arbitration between them and settled the dispute.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Both the kings compromised with honour bestowed on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">At the invitation of the king of Tibet, Atish Dipankar went to Tibet from Vikramsila.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">At that time the Buddhist religion was distorted by various malpractices in Tibet.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Acarya Ratnakar was then the High priest of the monastery who was also the preceptor of Atish Dipankar.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">With his permission Atish Dipankar started for Tibet to reform Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Prasantamitra, Rahulbhadra, Padmakarghosa, Kamalsila, Jinarakshit, Kalyanarakshit and Dharmankurdatta were the other scholars who stayed and taught there.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">In addition to prescribed syllabuses, the.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">learned scholars of this institute explained the fundamentals of the Dhamma and basic principles of education.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">The Maynamati-Lalmai is a light red plateau, eight kilometres west of Comilla.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Lalmai range is situated by the side of Dhaka- Chittagong road.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">At the time of excavation in 1943, a copper-plate inscription was discovered.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">It describes the history of preaching of Sahajyana Buddhism, account of flourishing Pattika suite and relation with Samatat and Arakan.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Excavations in the year 1955-56 brought to light a picturesque Buddhist establishment locally known as Salvan vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">During excavation, a numbers of terracatta art, sculptures, silver coins, gold coins, images of Buddha and Bodhisattva and other architectural designs were found.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">The Archaeological finds reveal a clear picture of the Buddhist civilization and culture which is believed to have flourished under powerful ruling Buddhist dynasties- the Devas, the Chandras, the Khargas and other Vaisnab Dharma dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">The establishment of Salvan vihara is enclosed by a series of 115 well--arranged monastic cells which originally must have accommodation for large number of monks and students.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">It faces only one door to the north of the monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">The design of the monastery is in harmony with Paharpur vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">The architecture of Kalsan vihara of Java and Ananda temple of Myanmar (Burma) is similar to this.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">There exists Kanaka Stupa vihara, Ananda Raja's palace, Rupban-Kannya's palace, Adunapaduna Mura, Bhoja Raja's palace, Kotbari, Kutila Mura, Charpatra Mura, Ananda vihara, Pakash Mura surrounding Maynamati.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Some of them have ruins and the others are uncertain to locate.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">In the Burmese chronicles of 11th and 12th centuries, it is mentioned that the site was accidentally discovered during the years of World War II while digging trenches for defence (1943-44).</sent>
				<sent id ="458">A military contractor cut through a few mounds and extracted a large mount of bricks from well-planned structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Salvan vihara was built, by the Buddhist king Bhavadeba of Deva dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">He donated it to the Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">It was built at 8th century and existed upto 400 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Kutila Mura is situated five kilometres north to Salvan, Its name is Tiratana Stupas.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">The three stupas are the synibol of Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">There is another vihara at Charpatra Mura.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">Ananda vihara is three kilometres north to Salvan vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">It is bigger than Salvan vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">One can easily go from Comilla town with baby taxi, jeep and private car to Maynamati.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">There is a museum to the south of the Saivall vihara where the testimonies to the ruins of cultural heritage found during excavation are preserved.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">The office and training centre for BARD (Bangladesh Academy of Rural Development) existed here.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">You may make it trip to visit Lumbini, Buddha-Gaya, Kusinaggar, Rajgir, Vaisali, Ajanta, Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Vikramsila, Mynamati, Paharpur etc. when you get chance.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">These sacred and historical places are very attractive and help to acquire knowledge and wisdom.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
