<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-budh-12</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.296</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">362</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4488</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1678</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t40">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">India was under the dominant influence of Vedic Brahmanic religion before the advent of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">At that time India was divided into a number of small kingdoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Kings used to collect paddy, domestic animals etc. as tax.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">There were kings, priests or Brahmans, respectable persons and cultivators in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Priests or Brahmans used to hold sacrificial rites to worship Brahma and other gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The general belief was that one can go to heaven with the blessings of Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">They believed that Brahma was the creator of earth and men.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Brahmans used to preach that Brahma has created human beings from his different limbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Brahman was created from his mouth, Kshatriya from his hand, Vaisya from his thigh and Sudra from the dust of his feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Brahman therefore speak on behalf of gods, Kshatriya are warriors, Vaisyas are traders and Sudras belong to servant class.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Besides sacrificial rituals, various kinds of incantations and mystical trivialities were prevailing among the common masses.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">This kind of religion could not satisfy the educated.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">thoughtful persons of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Hence they were in quest for different path to seek truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Kshatriya were pioneers in this respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">They could not feel happy by following the path of traditional religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Besides Vedas and Upanishads were limited within rituals and sacrifices.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">In this way Vedic political activities engulfed the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The entire country was inundated with the blood of animal slaughter for sacrificial rituals.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The Brahmins used to preach that wealth can be attained through Vedic sacrificial rituals.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">This will also lead to sound health.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Such rituals will bring good result in this World and also hereinafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Men did not realize that lasting benefit cannot be achieved through rituals.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Men became discontented against this and there arose the concept of Four stages such as Brahmacariya (asceticism), householder life, renunciation and Sannyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Next came the concept of emancipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">There was a consciousness of revolt against sacrificial rites.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Men began to think how to attain correct knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Some thought insects, trees etc. must have souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Again controversy arose whether God existed or did not exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Beyond the Vedic religion, anti-Vedic thoughts also prevailed.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Travelling ascetics used to preach these views.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Among them, those to be specially mentioned are Jain preachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Parsanath of Kashi preached this doctrine about two hundred fifty years before the advent of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Mahavir of Jain religion was born 24 years before the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Besides saints, used to live in hermitage.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">They used to study Vedas and earn livelihood by teaching students.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">India was then divided into sixteen Mahajanapadas or the sixteen great territories, viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Anga, Magadha, Kashi, Kosala, Vajji, Malla, Cedi, Vatsa, Kuru, pancala, Maccha (Matsya), Surasena, Assaka, Avanti, Gandhara, and Kamboja.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Each of the territory was named after the tribe who colonized it.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">There was no mention of Sakya territory in the sixteen Mahajanapadas.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">It was under Kosala Kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">It was treated as as a tributary state.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Suddhodana, the father of Siddhartha Gautama was the king of this state.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The rulers of the sixteen Mahajanapadas was called Emperors.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Bimbisara was the emperor of Magadha, whereas Prasenjit was the sovereign of Kosala.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">At that time there were 63 Sramana doctrines including Buddhist religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">There were Gurus of Ajivaka community.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Among Ajivaka Guru Mokkhali Gosat, Ajit Keshakarrrbal, Sanjay, Kachayan were famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Before attainment of Buddhahood Gautama learnt doctrine under one of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Among 63 doctrines, Buddhist religion was included.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">But Buddhist religion attracted the world within a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Mahavir was the founder of Jainism.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Rajagriha was the main place of his preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">There is no mention of his meeting with Gautama.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">There were also the worshipper of Agni (Fire).</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Another community was Jalabasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Here is referred to religious groups which practised many strange rituals.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Then India was called jambudvipa.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The administrative policy was city centred like Greeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Monarchy was about to be introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Ajatasattu, the king of Magadha, Prasenjit, the king of Kosala were extending their Kingdoms accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Lokayat philosophy of Carvak was also prevalent.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Of all the founders of the religious the Buddha was popular.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He advised people to avoid the two extremes, austerity and earthly pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The Four Noble Truths are the principle Theory of His doctrine.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">This Theory is related to Sufferings and the cessation of Sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The cessation is called Nibbana or Emancipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The Noble Truth is the Atthangika Magga or the way to cessation of Sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Compassion to all beings was the essence of new religion which attracted the common masses.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Thus the Buddha became prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">All other Philosophical thoughts besides Carvak and Jaina philosophies belong to later ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Only Rig Veda was composed before the Tripitaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Brahman Samhita, Samhita and Samkha philosophy were written after the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Caste discrimination was part of Brahrninic religion.There were elements of caste system even in Jaina religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The Buddha shattered the barriers of caste system.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Barbers, low caste Sudras and Vaisyas could be ordained as monks to become part of the Bhikkhu Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The Buddha preached His doctrine in Jambudvipa, as India was then known.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Its boundaries lay in the north near the Himalayas with Kapilavastu, Sravasti and Buddha Gaya and in the south to the Vindya mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">From Sankasya in the west to Anga and Vaisali in the east, Buddha preached His religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">According to Ceylonese, the Buddha visited their country while the Burmese thought that He had visited Burma also.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Magadha became a strong kingdom before the Mahaparinibbana of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Ajatasattu and his son Udaya were powerful kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Then Sisunag ascended the throne of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The second Council was held during the reign of Kalasoka, son of Sisunag.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The first Council was held at the time of Ajatasattu.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Then Alexander invaded India.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Much is not known about propagation of Buddhism during this period.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">King Menander of Afganistan had extensive dialogues on Buddhism with Bhikkhu Nagasena which formed the basis of the famous book Milinda prasna.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The king was a devotee of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Chandragupta was the first king of Maurya dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">A war took place between him and the king of Nanda dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Chandragupta defeated the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">His son was Bindusara.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Little is known of Bindusara's reign.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">His son was Asoka.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Asoka became the king of Maurya empire after Bindusara.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">His name was Devanam piya piyadasi as found in his inscription.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The Kalinga war was turning point in the Emperor's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The country was conquered eight years after his coronation.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Here more than one lac people were killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">At this his mind was plunged into sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He was converted to Buddhism by Nigrodha Sramana.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The Sramana produced on the Emperor a deep psychological effect and the cumulative result was his turning of mind towards Buddhism in quest of inner peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Being a follower of Buddhism he took the initiative of taking Dharmayatra.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">He appointed officers to preach the religion among the public.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">They were called Dharmamahamatra.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">He made many edicts and pillars where he wrote the Buddha's instructions.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Teachings of the Buddha were inscribed in the slopes of mountains, pillars in hills and even in caves.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">It disseminated Buddha's teachings throughout his empire.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Of them 34 have been discovered.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">These edicts inscribed messages of respect to elders, compassoin to living beings, donation to Bhikkhus, Sramanas and poor, to behave well with relatives, friends and servants, kindness to all, purity of life, truthfulness and charity.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">All people lived happily in his empire.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He was liberal to all religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Asoka identified the sacred places related to the Buddhism and erected pillars there.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In the Buddhist tradition he is credited with the construction of 84, 000 stupas throughout India on the sacred relics of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The object of it was to attract all people of the country towards Buddhist religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The religious tour (Dharmayatra) of Asoka is significant.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">He paid visit to important Buddhist religious places.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">During these tours the Emperor made religious gifts, erected monuments at sacred places and also had discourse with the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Asoka organised at Pataliputra the third Buddhist Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">During, this Sangiti, differences of opinion between pious and unpious monks were resolved through his efforts.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Asoka sent his son Mahendra and daughter Sanghamitra for propagation of Buddhism in Ceylon.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">King Tissa of Ceylon also used the title Devanam Piya in honour of Asoka.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">An inscription records that he sent missionaries to central Asia, Europe and African continent.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">His messages were translated in Greek language for propagation.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">His Empire extended upto Kandahar of Afginistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Inscriptions discovered there support expansion of Buddhism there.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The Iranian- speaking Combose tribes lived near Kandahar and embraced Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The entire south India also came under the influence of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The Dharmadutas travelled at Java, Sumatra and Tibet.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The Maurya reigned for a total of 137 years in Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">After annihilation of the Maurya, the Sungas ascended the throne land did not patronize Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">An inscription of Asoka in Brahmi scripts was discovered in Mahastan of Bogra.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Pundravardhana region of the ancient Bengal developed as an important centre of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Lalita Vistara, a biography of the Buddha composed in the second century has made mention of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Buddhism spread of Bangladesh even before Asoka's reion.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Chinese pilgrim Huen Tsang has recorded in his travel account of having witnessed stupa constructed by Asoka in ancient Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The Kushana dynasty reigned in the first century A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">This Empire was formed with a vast region from Magadha (or Bihar) to north-western India and same area of middle Asia and Afganistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Kaniska was the greatest of all kings of this dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">At first he was not a Buddhist.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">He came close to philosopher Pasava, a renowned Buddhist scholar.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Like Asoka also he turned his new Indian Empire into a Buddhist Empire.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">He was very careful for the development of Buddhist religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">During his time Bhikkhus started developing difference of views on various issues.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Kaniska tried to bring harmony among the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">With the advice of his preceptor Pasava, he convened a Council for the collection and modification of Buddha's teaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">He invited all the monks representing different Buddhist sects at Jalandhar.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Five hundred senior monks were selected for holding the convocation.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The king built a big monastery named Kundalavana vihara for the accommodation of the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This is the fourth Buddhist Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The Council was held at Kundalavana with Pasava in the chair.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">In the Council the original-Tripilaka was not collected but commentaries were prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">These commentaries were Vibhasa Sastra and the language was used in Sanskrit in lieu of Pali.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">This Council is known as Kaniska Council or Sabastibadi Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Kaniska made many Stupas and Ceteyas for the expansion of Buddhist religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It is known that he sent missioneries to China and Middle Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">At the time of Kaniska the distinguished scholars like Asvaghose, Vasumitra etc. wrote many books.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Kaniska himself was very learned emperor.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">He made edicts in different places of his kingdom where he wrote many advices.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">A large edict as such has been found in Afganistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Buddhism flourished during the reign of Gupta period.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">During Gupta period after Kaniska, the Chinese traveller, Fa-Hien once visited India.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">He had mentioned the flourishing condition of Buddhism in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">A Bodhisattva image had been found during the excavation of Mahastangarh at Bogra and a Buddha image at Viharail of Rajshahi.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It is proved by these excavations that Buddhism was also popular in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">At that time there was no king.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Might was right, during that period.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The people of Bengal in desperation called on Gopala and selected him as their king.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">He was the founder of the Pala dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">In 750 A. D. he became the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Pala dynasty ruled for 400 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">All Pala rulers were Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">During Pala rule cultural and religious ties were established with Sumatra, Java, Bali islands etc. Buddhism spread there earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Odantapuri of Magadha, Sompuri vihara at Paharpur, Vikramsila vihara were established during the first century of the Pala rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">During their reign other Buddhist establishments, monasteries and stupas such as Traikutaka of West Bengal, Devikot of North Bengal, Pandit vihara of Chittagong, Phullahari of Bihar, Pattikera of Maynamati, Sannagar and Vikrampuri vihara of Vikrampur and Jagaddal vihara of Rajshahi are mentionahle.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">King Mahipal repaired many viharas of Sarnath and Buddha-Gaya and established new viharas.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Vajrayana, Sahajyana and Kalacakrayana-the main divisions of Mahayana Buddhism were also prevalent at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">During this period Dipankar Srigann, a renowned Bengalee Buddhist scholar went to Tibet to preach Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Dharmapala established viharas and gave donation to shape the Nalanda Mahavihara as new one.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He established Sompur vihara and also offered fund for the maintenance of the monastery and the Nalanda University.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Many scholars and learners from Tibet, Mongolia, China etc. would come to those Viharas to have higher education.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The Tibetan and Indian Scholars translated many books and carried it to Tibet, Kashmir, Nepal and China.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Bengali language owes origin in Pala age.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Buddhist Caryapada and Doha-specimen of original Bengali.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">language were written during this period.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">From 8th to 11th century A.D. these were composed.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Buddhist sculptures and arts rapidly developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">At this time Shakta, Vaisnab and Brahman religion prospered.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Though the Pala rulers were Buddhists by faith and ardent patrons of Buddhism, yet they offered gifts to the Brahmans.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Such religious toleration was in evidence during the entire period of administration of the Palas of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It is very difficult to trace the history of Buddhists of Bangladesh from 1700 to 1800 A.D. But at that time Buddhists lived in Chittagong, Chittagong hill tracts, Noakhali, Comilla and Patuakhali.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Besides there were some Buddhists in regions around Rashahi and Dinajpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">During that period Chakma, Barua, Marma and Rakhaine used to live in Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">It is gathered from history that Buddhists with title Barua migrated from Magadha and settled in Chittagong journeying through Assam, Comilla and Noakhali.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">In 1201 A.D. Bakhtear Khilji attacked Magadha (present day Bihar).</sent>
				<sent id ="197">At that time Lakshmana Sen was ruler of Magadha and Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Lakshmand Sen was defeated by Bakhtiar Khilji.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">During this period, a group of Buddhists, migrated eastward.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">It is learnt that they were the ancestors of present-day Buddhist of Chittagong, Comilla and Noakhali.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Comilla region was then ruled by Pattikera kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The king Ranabanka Malla was Buddhist and reigned from 1204 A.D. to 1220 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Lalmai- Maynamati of Comilla was then a prosperous area of Samatata.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Salavan vihara and pattikera vihara were glorious seats of Buddhism in Maynamati.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The Buddhists of Comilla used as their title Singha which means the most superior.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The word Singha is associated with Sakyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Grand father of Gautama was Sinhahanu and another name of Gautama is Sakya Sinha.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The Buddhists of Comilla believe that they are the descendants of Sakyasingha.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The Buddhists of Arakan were rulers of Chittagong in the Eighteenth century.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Chakma king Shermusta Khan ruled Chittagong at that time under the Arakanese ruler.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Chakmas believe that they came to Chittagong from Champak nagar which is somewhere near Comilla.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Some others believe it to be somewhere east of Burma.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Shermusta Khan reigned from 1737 A.D. to 1758 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">In 1757 the English defeated Sirajaddoulah in the battle of Plassey and occcupied Bengal, Bihar and Orissa.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The Chakma king was engaged in battle with the English upto His kingdom had as boundary Lushai hill to the north, Dhaka Trunk Road to the south, the Sangu river to the east and the Feni river to the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">During this period Chakma, Chak, Khiyang, Tanchanga and Barua Buddhists lived in this area.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">All were Budhists and lived with Hindus, Muslims and Christians of Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Chittagong and Chittagong Hill Tracts constituted one single district or region at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Around 1774 Marmas settled in Ramu and Matamuhuri area.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">After 30 years they established Bandarban town.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Around 1784, Rakhaine Buddhists started settling in Patuakhali region of Barisal.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">As Chittagong region was under the influence of Buddhists, some Marma or Magh came to Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Bara Maghbazar and Maghbazar still bear the memory of their settlement.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The Dhamrai region of Dhaka district is the changed name of Dharmarajika.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Ancient name of Savar was Sahor.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Ruins of an ancient Buddhist monastery have been discovered at Sahor.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Atish Dipankar studied in this monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">In the Eighteenth century, Baruas settled in the regions of Rangunia, Rauzan, Fatikchari, Sitakundu, Boalkhali, Patiya, Satkania, Bashkhali of Chittagong district.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Barua, Marma and Rakhaine together had dominance in Cox's Bazar and Tekhnaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Barua means Bara Ariya or Great Ariya.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Barua Buddhists also used titles such as Talukder, Mutsuddi, Chowdhury etc. Capital of Chakma kingdom was first somewhere near Satkania or Ranlu.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The word Satkania derived from seven daughters or-Chakma princesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">There is still a place named Chakma kul in Ramu police station.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The name of the village Shakpura is believed to have derived from Chakmapur: In 1785 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">capital of Chakma kingdom was established in Rajanagar village of Rangunia police station.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">In 1869 the Chakma capital was shifted to Rangamati, because the headquarters of Chittagong Hill Tracts was shifted from Chandraghona to Rangamati.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Religious high priest of Buddhist is called Bhikkhu and all religious activities are carried through him.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The Bhikkhus together constitute Bhikkhu Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Buddhism was under the influence of Tantric rituals during Eighteenth century.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The entire North Indian region came under Tantric Buddhism under the influence of Mahayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The songs of Caryapada the original specimen of Bengali Language bear this influence.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">These influences prevailed among the Buddhists of Chittagong region also.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Those Buddhists who had migrated from Magadha and settled in Chittagong did not have any religious book.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">They were unable to carry manuscripts in palm-leaves while migrating.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">This was a period of great crisis for the Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">On the other side Chakmas lost their kingdom and took shelter in Chittagong hill Tracts.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">In North Bengal, there were still some Buddhists in Rangpur, Rajshahi, Bogra among the Rajavamshis.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Besides some other Buddhists were withdrawing themselves into shells.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Flickering light of Buddhism burnt for long in and around Mahastangarh.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">There are still some Buddhists in North Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The Eighteenth century is called the period of decline of the Buddhists of Chittagong, Noakhali, Comilla, Patuakhali and North Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">The Twentieth century begins from 1901 and now we are in the last phase of this century.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">The combined history of Chakma, Marma and Barua Buddhists is relevant to study the history of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Chakmas, Marmas and Tanchangas live in three hill distircts of Rangamati, Bandarban and Khagrachari.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Barua, Chowdhury and Singha Buddhists live in Chittagong, Noakhali and Comilla respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Their combined history is the history of Buddhists of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The history of Buddhists in the Nineteenth and Twentieth centuries is one of transitions from darkness to light.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The Buddhists were plunged during the entire Nineteenth century.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Superstitions and Tantric practices strongly influenced Buddhism during this period.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Many gods and goddesses alien to Buddhism exercised strong influence in Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Chakma king Gyanbaksha died in 1800 A.D. He fought against the British throughout his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Commander Runu Khan was his companion.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">In 1787 he surrendered to the British by payment of revenues.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">After his death Dharambaksh Khan became king.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">He was succeeded by Rani Kalindi after his death.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The British did not acknowledge her as Queen for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">In 1844 the British officially acknowledged her as the Queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">She reigned until In1860 the British formed the District of Chittagong Hill Tracts comprising the entire hilly region of the Chittagong District.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Chakma queen Kalindi occupies an important place in the history of Buddhists for many reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">She made life-long endeavours for the upliftment of subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">In 1804 Bomang Kingdom was established in Bandarban known as the king of Marmas.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">She made a lot of contribution for the upliftment of Marmas.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">In 1856 Sangharaj Saramedha, a famous monk of Burma (Myanmar) visited Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">He made significant contribution to the religious history of Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">It has been mentioned earlier that Tantric Practices exercised dominant influence on the Buddhists of Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Monks could neither understand nor explain the fundamental teachings of Buddhism, as no books were available.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Despite Tantric influence, Buddhists could not forget Gautama Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">They worshipped the Buddha, Dharma and Sangha but many used to worship Tantric gods and godesses also.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Sangharaj Saramedha visited Chittagong along with some disciples and accepted hospitality of Radharam Mahasthavir at Sitakundu.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">From there he went to village Mahamuni Pahartali which is a famous centre of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">A big fair is held there every year on the occasion of Chaitra Sankranti (Year-end) and the New year.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">When the fair begins, Chakmas and Marmas visit the fair and famous Mahamuni Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Sangharaj Saramedha stayed here for two years and propagated Theravada Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">He made endeavours to reform existing ill practices and eliminate superstitions among both monks and laity.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">He succeeded in bringing about a new rejuvenation in the social and religious lives of the Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">It created a new wave of reawakening to Chakma, Marma and Barua community.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Queen Kalindi invited Sangharaj to her palace at Rajanagar.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Superstitions pervaded the royal family also.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The queen was indoctrinated to Theravada Buddhism under Sangharaj in a new way.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">This event vastly influenced the Chakma Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">In 1857 the queen invested Sangharaj with a royal title during the royal revenue collection ceremony.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">After sometime Sangharaj returned to Burma.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">In 1864 he again visited Chittagong with another batch of monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">At that time differences of opinion arose among the monks of Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The monks got divided into two sects.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">One is known as Sangharaj Nikaya and the other as Mahasthavir Nikaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Chakma, Marma and Rakhaine monks joined the Sangharaj Nikaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The lay followers were also divided into the two sects but social rituals and mutual marital relationship among all continued as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">But the monks of the two sects refrained from performing religious rituals together.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The lay followers respected monks of both sects.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">During this period English education began to spread among Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">They started visiting Calcutta for higher studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Monks started visiting Burma and Srilanka for religious education.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Buddhists left for Arakan, Burma, Calcutta, Tipperah and Assam in quest of business and jobs.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Though Buddhists are mainly agriculturists, professional groups such as doctors, engineers, lawyers, teachers etc. began to emerge.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">They also turned to non- government jobs and business side by side with looking for Government jobs.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The principal religious festivals of Buddhists are Buddha Purnima, Asari Purnima, Aswini Purnima, Kathinacivar festival, Madhu Purnima and Maghi Purnima.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Besides these, Biju festival is held on the occasion of Bengali year ending and New year.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">This festival continues for seven days on the occasion of the New year.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Fairs are held in Pahartali Mahamuni, Rajanagar Mahamuni, Rangamati Rajvihara, Chakrasala etc. Jhum fire is ablaze when overgrowth in the hills are burnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Chakmas and Marmas complete Jhum fire in the month of Chaitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Then they celebrate Biju festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">When rains start in the month of Vaisakha they cultivate in Jhum lands and start plantation of seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">This is called Jhum cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Public holiday is observed on the occasion of Buddha Purnima.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Special programmes are broadcast on this day from Radio and Television.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Besides verses from the Tripitaka are recited throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Every Buddhist has to be ordained as Samanera at once in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">It is virtuous to lead religious life for at least seven days in the temple as a Samanera.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Besides Buddhists go on pilgrimage, normally in the months of Aswin and Kartik.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">The Bangladesh Government has constituted Buddhist Welfare Trust in 1984.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Besides certificates are given in Pali by the Pali and Sanskrit Board which has under it about 30 Tols.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Besides M.A. Degree is awarded in Pali by the University.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">There are Departments of Pali and Sanskrit in Dhaka and Chittagong Universities.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Pali is taught in various colleges.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">The Buddhist population in Bangladesh according to 1991 Census is 6,23,The number of Buddhist viharas and temple will be around 1000 with 2000 Bhikkhus and Samaneras.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Literacy among Buddhist is higher than followers of other religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">No beggar is found among the Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">There are many religious and cultural organisations among the Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">The oldest organisation is Chittagong Buddhist Association established in 1895.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">In 1950 the Bouddh Kristi Prachar Sangha was established.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Besides there are other Buddhists organisations such as Parbatya Buddha Sangha, Bangladesh Sangharaj Bhikkhu Mahamandal, Bangladesh Bhikkhu Mahasabha, Parbatya Chattagram Bhikkhu Samity, Rangunia Bhikkhu Samity, Rakhaine Marma Sangha Council, Bangladesh Bouddha Yuba Parishad.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Among the famous and ancient viharas mention may be made of Pahartali Mahamuni Vihara, Cox's Bazar Mahathindagri Vihara, Chitmaram Vihara, Bandarban Vihara, Ramkot Vihara of Ramu, Rauzan Sudarshana Vihara, Raj Vihara of Manikchari, Rajanagar Raj Vihara, Saidbari Dharmachakra Vihara and Ichamati Dhatu Chaitya Vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Every year a number of fairs are held in Buddhist vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Religious functions, religious dramas, songs and kirtans are held in these fairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Among famous Buddhist fairs are Chakrasala fair, Rajvihara mela of Rangamati, Manikpur Parinirvana fair, Machadia Chaitya fair, Ramkot fair, Satbaria Mahamuni fair, Chedir Pukur fair, Binajuri Parinirvana fair, lchamati Dhatu Chaitya fair and Lathichari Buddha fair.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Dharmarajika Buddhist Temple, a famous Temple in Dhaka was established m` 1960.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Sacred ashes of Atish Dipankar and Hawakawya, a Japanese Buddhist leader have been preserved here.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The ashes of Atish Dipankar was brought from China.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">There are some Buddhist religious and cultural monthly and miscellaneas.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">A mouthpiece of Bouddha Kristi Prachar Sangha is Kristi.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">The journal of Pali Book Society is Jyoti while Anoma is the mouthpiece of Anoma group.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Maitri Bani is the journal of Parbatya Bouddha Sanglia, Sambodhi is the name of the journal, of Mttrma Buddhist Association.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Among Buddhist scholars and reformers, Kripasaran Mahastbavir Rani Kalindi, Raja Bhuvanmohan Roy, Javana Tissa Mahathera, Shilalankar Mahathera, Visuddhananda Mahathera, Umesh Chandra Mutsuddi.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Dr. Benimadhav Barua, Professor Surendralal Barua, Writer Birajmohan Roy; Professor Manindralal Barua, Girish Chanrdra Barua, Prof. Pramode Ranjan Barua, Raja Aung Shwe, Prue and Asoka Barua are well- known.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Archaeological excavations have lead to the discovery of many ancient Buddhist Viharas in Paharpur, Mahastangarh and Maynamati of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">They stand as monuments of pride to people belonging to all, religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">There are some ancient Buddhist monuments in Sitakunda hill, Adinath hill of Maheshkhali, area south of Rangunia college and Deyang hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">If excavation is carried out, many valuable archaeological treasures will be found out.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">You need to study a lot to know ancient heritage.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">You should visit the places mentioned here.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">It is necessary to know the people of the country side by side with acquiring knowledge about religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Though the places of pilgrims are located outside the country, you will have opportunity to visit them and know the people of that country.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">It is necessary to know people of different religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">This helps in the development of friendship among nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Buddhism has been perished from this sub-continent for many reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">But the glorious history is scattered in different regions of India and Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Archaeological excavations have led to their discovery.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The number of people following Buddhism in Bangladesh is very few.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The Government has taken responsibility to preserve archaeological sites in Rajshahi., Rangpur, Bogra, Comilla and Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">We should visit those places to know our history.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The Buddha said, Knowledge is the vehicle for advancement.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
