<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-budh-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.567</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">440</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5854</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1726</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t48">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Commentaries on the Tripitaka written in Pali language are called Attakatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">You know that Tripitaka is divided, into three parts which are a collection of many books.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The Tripitaka has not yet been translated into Bengali entirely.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The London Pali Text Society has published only 31 volumes.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The book is vast and so many issues are included there that it is difficult to complete its reading.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Explanations and interpretations of many suttas of Tripitaka are also essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">After compilation of the Tripitaka, many Buddhist philosophers, scholars and saints were born in different ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">They have made studies of the Tripitaka in all its depth and have discovered many aspects of the suttas.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">They were conversant with various complicated issues of Dhamma, Vinaya and Philosophy.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They felt that those issues call for further detailed analysis in a new way.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Books written on explanation and analysis of these issues are called Attakatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">It is a Pali word meaning Arthakatha in Bengali.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">No new philosophy is written in Attakatha but it explains meaningfully various subjects or issues contained in the Tripitaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The main purpose of Attakatha is to explain complicated subjects of the Tripitaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Many issues are cleraly understood after reading Attakatha or its interpretations.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Among persons who became famous by writing Attakatha, the names of Buddhaghosh, Buddhadatta and Dharmapal should first be mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Buddhadatta is the oldest among them and most celebrated commentator.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The Vinaya viniccaya has explained Vinaya in lucid and brief manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Abhidhammavatara has made simple and brief interpretations of Abhidhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">He has collected materials of his books from the Mahavamsa of Ceylon.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">For this reason Visuddhimagga written in Ceylon and Buddhadatta's Abhidhammavatara are almost similar.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">But Buddhadatta has made outstanding contribution to the teaching as well as study of Abhidhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">That is why he enjoys high esteem among the Buddhists following Theravada school.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He was born in South India and was a poet.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The name of Buddhaghose is memorable for ever in Pali literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">His dexterity in interpreting the complicated subjects of the Abhidhamma has made them easy to understand readers are not tired of reading his books.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Buddhaghose was born somewhere in a village near Buddhagaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He was an extraordinary scholar.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He has written an analytical book named Attasalini, based on Dharmasanghini.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">He went to Ceylon or present-day Srilanka where he studied Tripitaka and Attakatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">He rendered in Pali the entire Attakathas written in Sinhalese.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">He wrote a vast book named Visuddhimagga based on interpretation of a single sloka or verse.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">After writing this book, he was permitted to translate books written in Sinhalese.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Buddhadatta and Buddhaghose were contemporary and both went to Ceylon during the reign of king Accutavikkanta.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">They wrote a number of other books besides Attakatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Both were poets and made outstanding contribution in the development of Buddhist literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The Attakathas include life of the Buddha, preaching of His religion, various events of Buddha's contemporary time, historical events and story of kings and monarchs.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">For this Attakatha occupies a very important place in Buddhism and Buddhist literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">There are many Attakathas known as Dhammapada Attakatha, Udana Attakatha, Vimana Vatthu Attakatha, Yamakappakarana Attakatha etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Attakatha attracts attention of readers more for their simple and lucid interpretation than even Tripitaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The stories are pleasant and easy reading.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They are composed in easy, simple and attractive language like Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Here some of the stories of Attakatha are narrated.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Nanda was the son of Mahapajapati Gotami, the step mother of Siddhartha Gautama.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">King Suddhodana was his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Nanda was beautiful and energetic.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">So he was called Sundarnanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">It is said that after the expiry of queen Mahamaya, mother of Siddhartha, Mahapajapati Gotami took the responsibility of bringing up Siddhartha after handing her son Nanda to the foster mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Tathagata Buddha was staying at Venuvana vihara of Rajgir.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">King Suddhodana hearing the news sent ten envoys to Buddha to take Him to Kapilavastu.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Each envoy had thousand inmates, all of them took ordination to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">At last the king deputed his chief priest's son Kaludaye.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Kaludaye and his companions went to the Buddha and after listening to His teachings, developed faith and in due course with proper exertion, attained Arhathood.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Kaludaye communicated to Him (Buddha) the wishes of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The invitation was accepted by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">He went to Kapilavastu with twenty thousand Arhats.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">After reaching there he initiated king Suddhodana into Saddharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">At that time Prince Nanda, the son of queen Mahapajapati Gotami, was celebrating his consecration, marriage and house-warming ceremonies.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">On the occasion of these three festivals when congratulations were being offered to the prince, the Buddha visited the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The Buddha delivered religious discourses and handed over begging bowl to Nanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The prince followed Him thinking that the Buddha would take the bowl from him at any moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">But the Buddha would not take it and Nanda out of reverence for Him followed the Master.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Janapada Kalyani, to whom he was betrothed, hearing that the prince Nanda was following the Buddha with bowl in hand, with dishevelled hair ran after Nanda and said to him, Return quickly, O noble lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">These affectionate words touched him and he was deeply moved.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">But Nanda could not return the bowl to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">So he accompanied the Great teacher to the park.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">On arrival there the Buddha questioned Nanda whether he would become a Bhikkhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">So great was his reverence to the Buddha that with reluctance, he agreed to be admitted into the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">But Nanda enjoyed no spiritual happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">He was constantly thinking of his bride.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">He with his mental troubles said to the Bhikkhus : Brethren, I am not satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">I am now living religious life but I can not continue any longer.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">I intend to abandon the higher ordination and return to the household life.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Hearing this the Buddha thought that Nanda was worried about his bride.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The used psychic powers Buddha devised a means to set him on the true path.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">With the object of showing him celestial nymphs, the Buddha and took him to the Tavatimsa Heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">On the way Nanda was shown.a</sent>
				<sent id ="78">single she-monkey who had lost her ears, nose and tail in a fire, climbing to a burntupstump in a scorched field.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Reverend Sir, Janapada Kalyani is like the single monkey when compared to those celestial nymphs, who are definitely more beautiful and fair.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The Buddha said :If you wish to enjoy the exquisitely beautiful celestial nymphs, then observe the precepts with diligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Observe the Dhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Trusting words of the Buddha, Nanda said he would strictly observe abstinence in order to attain the nymphs.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Then the Buddha took him to Jetavana.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Monks came to know that Nanda was observing abstinence in order to attain the nymphs.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">They began to ridicule him.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Ashamed of ridicules, Nanda engaged himself in more austere meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Sthavir Ananda came to know the real matter and told Nanda, Your mind is burning with lust.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">You are physically observing abstinence but in the heart of your heart, You are not a Brahmachari.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">With cravings in the mind one cannot succeed in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">You will face death with unfulfilled cravings.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">If you want to observe real abstinence, then you will have to free your mind from cravings.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Nanda was charmed to hear this advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Nanda woke up in real consciousness.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">He could know himself and a great change occured in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">He plunged himself in deep meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Slowly his cravings came to an end.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">His mind was filled with tranquility.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">As a Kshatriya king returns to the capital with exceeding joy in heart after defeating thousand enemies, so the first morning of Arhanthood was shown in the life of Nanada.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">He emerged from his seat of meditation with it tranquil mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">A celestial halo surrounded his entire body.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">That very morning he stood before the Tathagata.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Sthavir Nanda made salutation to the Buddha and said, Reverend Sir, all my attachments have vanished.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">I have realised the futility of the world, I have attained Arhanthood, My cravings have been destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">I am now free from sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The Buddha found that as the sun illuminates morning sky by dispelling darkness of the night, so the darkness of Nanda's mind has vanished.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">With a calm voice He told Nanda : 'You are a victor now.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">You have controlled your senses with great care.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Even as rain penetrates an ill-thatched house, so does lust penetrate an undeveloped mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Even as rain does not penetrate a well-thatched house, so does lust not penetrate a well-developed mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">As soon as the Buddha completed recitations of the gatha, many Bhikkhus and lay disciples attained the fruition of Sotapatti.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Then the Bhikkhus said that the Buddha's have miraculous power.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The Master made him forget Janapada Kalyani turning him to for celestial nymphs.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Treasurer Anathapindika of Sravasti would arrange meal every day for hundred monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Same arrangement took place in the houses of Visakha, the great female devotee and king Pasenadi Kosala (kailg Praserljit):</sent>
				<sent id ="115">As there was no faithful devotee in the palace of king Prasenjit, so the monks did not take meal in the king's palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">They begged alms from his palace and eat meal in the Vihara of Anathapindika or in the Arama of Visakha.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">One day nutritious and delicious food was cooked in the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">King Prasenjit ordered the servants to offer the best food to the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">But the servants informed the king that there was no monk in the dinning hall.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The king was informed of the fact that the monks had taken the meal from the palace and finished them in the faithful devotee's houses or in some other monasteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Hearing this the king went to the Buddha at Jetavana and saluted him saying, Venerable Sir, how does the feeding earn the best virtue?</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The Buddha replied, O king, the feeding becomes the best by virtue of faith, whatever the faithful devotee offers the gift, he is worthy of admiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">King Prasenjit said, To whom the Bhikkhus have confidence?</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The Buddha said, O king, the Bhikkhus have confidence on their relatives or to the Sakya clan.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The king thought he would marry a Sakyakumari and place her as the chief queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Then the Bhikkhus will consider him as a relation.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Thinking so, he saluted the Buddha and returned to the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">He sent an envoy to Kapilavastu with the message that he would like to marry a Sakyakumari and make her the Chief queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The Sakyas after hearing message from the envoy sat for consultation.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">One Sakya said, We are subservient to the order of Prasenjit, the king of Kosala.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">If we do not give a daughter in marriage with him, then we shall have great enmity with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">But if we agree to the marriage, our pride of clan will be adversely affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">`Then Mahanam, the king of Sakyas said, Do not have worries.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">My daughter Vasabhakshatriya was born to slave Nagmunda.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">She is now a beautiful girl of sixteen.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">From my side she is the daughter of Kshatriya.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">I shall hand her over to Kosala king as a Kshatriya daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The Sakyas agreed with him and approved his proposal.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Calling the envoy, the king said, I shall hand over my daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Please take her today.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The envoys thought, the Sakyas are very proud of superiority of their clan.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">They do not establish marital relationship with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">They may hand over some one else calling her a Sakya daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">We shall take one who eats with them in the same row.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">They do not eat with anyone who does not belong to their clan.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The envoys told them, We shall take such daughter who eats with you together in same row.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Then the Sakyas hatched a conspiracy and sat for another secret consultation among themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Mahanam Sakya said: There is nothing for you to worry, I have devised a plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">When I shall sit for eating, you will bring to me Vasabhakshatriya adorned with the best dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">When I shall take one morsel of food, you will bring a letter a false one and teIl me, Please look at this letter from such and such king.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Then you will hand over the letter in my hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">While eating infront of the envoys Mahanam said, Please bring my daughter and she will have food with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">They made a little delay to bring Vasabhakshatriya.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">She sat down with her father to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Mahanam took a morsel of rice and put in his mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Before he could take the second morsel, a Sakya brought a letter and said, Such and such king has addressed you a letter.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Please have look.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Saying this he gave the letter.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Then Mahanam saying, Mother, please go on eating placed his right hand on the plate and started reading the letter placing it on left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Having read this letter, he was planning to write answers.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Meanwhile Vasabhakshatriya finished her eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Then Mahanam pretended that he has also finished eating and get up for washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">At this the envoys thought she must be the daughter of Mahanam.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">But they could not understand the inside plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The king sent away his daughter to the kingdom in great pomp and splendour.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">King Prasenjit was delighted to marry her and made her the chief queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Vasabhakshatriya became very favourite to the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Once she gave birth to a beautiful son.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">To name the child, the king sent a minister to his grandmother asking her to give him a suitable name.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The Minister who went to her was somewhat short of hearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The grandmother of the king said, Vasabhakshatriya, won the hearts of all before the birth of the child and she would now be more favourite to the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The Minister misunderstood the word Ballava (dear) and took it as Vidudabna.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Returning to the king, he mentioned this name.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The prince was named Vidudabha thinking that this is the name of an ancient king of his dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Vidudabha began to grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">When he was seven years old, one day he asked his mother the name of his maternal uncle's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Many of his friends receive gifts but Vidudabha never got such presentations.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Replied the mother, Son, your maternal grandparents belong to Sakya clan.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">They live very far and connot sent presents.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">At the age of sixteen he again insisted her mother on going to maternal uncle's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Vasabhakshatriya sent her son to her father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">But before, secretly she wrote a letter to his father Mahanam Sakya expressing that the trick had never been discovered.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">On haring the news of Vidudabha's arrival at Sakya territory, all the Sakyan sent their sons and daughters outside the capital so that the younger ones could not bow down their heads.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Mahanam Sakya arranged all the facilities except this one.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Vidudabha was introduced with all the elder ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He was restless paying respect to them but he found none to pay him respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Being annoyed he said, Nobody is here to show me respect?</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The Sakyas replied that all the youngers went to their village.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He returned to the kingdom of Kosala after he had been there for some days.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">At the time of departure, Vidudabha's attendant kept his sword unmindfully at the roorn where he stayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The maid servant was cleaning the room after their departure and abusing him as, the son of female slave.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">All on a sudden the companion of Vidudabha entered the room for the sword and heard the abuses.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The companion went away hearing the happenings and conveyed to prince Vidudabha.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The trick was afterward discovered.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">King Prasenjit was annoyed with the concealed matter and deprived Vasabhakshatriya and her son Vidudabha of all the royal facilities given to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">One day he went to the Buddha and said, Venerable Sir, the Sakyns have done an odious act.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">I have out off all the relations with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">They would have to marry me the same descendant.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Buddha replied, The Sakyns have done so; but O king Vasabhakshatriya is a princess and she was born in the womb of royal family no doubt.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">She is not introduced by her mother's family.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The Master told him Katthahari Jataka whose hero was a king who placed his wife the wood cutter's aughter as the chief queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Their sons became the rulers of Varanas of 12 Yojanas length and used the title kastavaharia.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">King Prasenjit was satisfied on hearing the admonition of the Buddha and he again gave them all the facilities of the royal family.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">In due time Vidudahha became the ruler of Kosala but he did not forget the trick slighted by the Sakyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">He took vengeance by attempting to destroy the Sakya race and marched against Kapilavastu with vast army.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The Buddha early in the morning came to know this.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He was thinking of the Sakyas, his nearest relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">He went to Kapilavastu by virtue of psychic power and took rest under a tree of few shadow.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Nearby was the boundary of Vidudabha's kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">There was also a vast tree with cold shadow.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">On way to Kapilavastu with his army, Vidudhaba saw the Buddha sitting under that tree and asked, Reverend Sir, why are you taking rest under the tree without shadow in the summer?</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The Buddha uttered the most touching words.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The shadow of the relatives is so cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Vidudabha understood the meaning that the Buddha had come to protect His relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He paid homage to the Buddha and returned to Sravasti, the capital of Kosala.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The Buddha also went back to Jetavana by His psychic power.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The second time Vidudabha saw that the Buddha was present in the same way and place.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The third time also happened the occurrence.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The Master did not protect the Sakyas fourth time.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Once in the former birth, the Sakyas, destroyed so many fishes giving poison to the water of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">So they had to suffer the consequences .</sent>
				<sent id ="222">King Vidudabha indiscriminately killed all the Sakyas from children to old people and thus the whole Sakya clan Suffering from consequences of one's action is unavoidable.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Devoted Mallika was born at Kusinagar when she was grown up she was married with the General Bandhula.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Bandhula was the commander-in-chief of king Prasenjit of Kosala kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Mallikadevi got opportunity to hear the admonition of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Devoted Mallikadevi went to the Buddha at Jetavana two times daily and paid adoration to Triratna (Triple gem).</sent>
				<sent id ="227">She would offer food to the Sangha in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">She would give drinking liquids in the evening when she went to listen to the Mamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">But she had no issue for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">One day Bandhula, the General said to Mallika, You are childless.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Go away to your father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">I have no need of you.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">I will not lead family life with you'.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Mallikadevi did not expect such kind of strict order from her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">She listened to her husband's, order silently and went to her room.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">She thought, Sravasti is the holy place of my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">I have the opportunity to have virtuous deeds in closeness to the Buddha and His disciples but I have to go to Kusinagar for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">So before my departure I have to pay homage to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">With permission of her husband, she went to the Jetavana to meet the Buddha on way of Kusinagar.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">He paid homage to the Buddha and sit by the side.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The Buddha said, Where are you going Mallika?</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Mallika said to the Buddha, Venerable Sir, my husband has divorced me and I am leaving for Kusinagar.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The Buddha said, Why?</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Mallika replied, I am childless.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The Buddha said, Is this only reason?</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Mallika replied, Yes, Sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Then the Buddha said, Mallika, go back to your husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">112 Buddhist Religious Studies Mallika came back to her husband on hearing the assurance of the Buddha, Bandhula the General said to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Why did you come back here?</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Mallika replied, The Buddha has told me to return?</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Bandhula thought, the Buddha is the predictor.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">His blessings must he fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Bandhula received her again as his wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Mallika was pregnant.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">She had a wish to drink water and take bath in the auspicious pond (Mangala Udakathanam) of Licchavi.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The auspicious pond was covered with iron net.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The soldiers of Licchavi would always guard this pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">There was no provision to use the pond without permission.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Bandhula, the General promised her to fulfil her desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">One day both of them Bandhula and Mallika went out for Vaisali.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Mahali kumar, the great warrior of Vaisali was afraid on hearing the news.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">In the mean time Bandhula, the General reached there with his wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">He defeated the guard and made her wife drink and take bath with full satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">The guards informed the matter to their warrior Mahalikumar.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Mahalikumar said to them, Dont fight with the mighty hero Barndhula.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">He is the best of all warriors.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">He can alone kill all the Licchavis.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Don't proceed behind him.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Inspite of his interdiction, the warriors of Licchavi prepared to fight against Bandhula.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Mahalikurmar thought that the soldiers of his platoon would not carry his orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Then he said to them, When you will see wheel of the chariot is going under the ground, you come back.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">If you do not come, when you will hear the sound of the thunderbolt, you must come back, if not so, if you see only one hole in the wheel of the chariot, you must take a back.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The soldiers of Licchavi without caring him proceeded towards the chariot of Bandhula.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Mallikadevi is aware of their advancement and said to husband, Five hundred soldiers are following us.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">They are equipped with war materials The soldiers of Licchavi shouted Bandhula, dont flee away and be ready for war with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Then Bandhul said to Mallika, When you will see all the chariot in one place and in rows and see the front wheel only, you will tell me.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The chariots of Licchavi were in rows and seemed to be only one chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Mallika informed the situation as directed by her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Bandhula told Mallika to keep the bridle tied with the horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">He handed over the bridle of the horse to his wife and fixed the arrow with the bow.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Afterwards he gave the twang of a bow string in such a way that, all the five hundred soldiers were killed at a time but they seemed to be alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">The Licchavis could not understand the battle strategy.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">They were still running after him.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Then General Bandhula said, Sir, all of you are killed by me, If you do not believe it, then take off the dress of the last warrior among you.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">On hearing this all the warriors were astonished but yet they did so.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The last warrior fell down to the ground and died.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Then Bandhula said, All of you will meet same fate.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">So go back to your home, After giving last advice to your family take off your dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">They went back to their capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">When they took off their dress, all of them fell down to the ground and expired.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">By this way Bandhula defeated the Licchavis and returned to destination with his wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Mallika gave birth to twin sons sixteen times.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">All of them were strong and stout.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">They had married in due time.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">One day Bandhula was going to king Prasenjit of official purpose and on the way he saw that justice had given the judgement against a poor man who was innocent.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Then he asked the justice about his injustice and arbitrated as a jury.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">He gave the true judgement and gave the property to the owner, All the people praised him.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">As a result, king Prasenjit appointed him as the Chief Justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Within a short period he acquired the fame and name from all corners.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Other ministers being jealous filed a petition against him.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">The king himself was also afraid of their sons whose attendance was suspective so that one day they would dethrone him, So king Prasenjit organised an artificial mutiny in the frontier province.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">The king sent Bandhula with his thirty two sons to the frontier province to suppress the mutiny.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Bandhula and his sons pacified the mutiny and were returning to the capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">The king appointed assassins to murder them on the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Bandhula with his thirty two sons were murdered by the assassins engaged by the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">On that day Mallikadevi invited five hundred Bhikkhus in her house and was serving them with food.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Sariputta and Moggallayana were also present there.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">When Mallikadevi was busy to serve the Bhikkhus, the bearer gave her a letter bringing the news of her husband and sons death.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">She kept it in her waist.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">At that moment the vessel full of ghee broke down to the ground from her hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Sariputta Thera said to her, Upasika, don't think, these are transitory.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Then Mallika took the letter from her waist and read it.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Afterwards she said to Sariputta Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Reverend Sir, I have done all the duties to you inspite of knowing the death of my husband and 32 sons with courage and attention.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Then what is the use of repenting for a mere vessel?</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Nobody knows how a man expires.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Life is suffering and temporary.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Decay, illness and suffering are the formation of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">These are the natural form to vanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Ripe fruit may fall down at any moment, so also the case of death is comparable.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">The young, the old, the wise, the illiterate-all men are destined to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">The relatives, the well wishers cannot protect man from death.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">It is useless to mourn for the relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The dead is not benefited by this.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Mallikadevi called her daughters-in-law and said, All of you are innocent.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Your husband suffered the bad consequences of their actions done in the former births.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">So you need not mourn.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Never be envious of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">The attendants of the king reported it to the king and he also repented.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">The king came to the house of Mallika and begged pardon.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">He said, Now I have understood my mistake, I want to give you a boon.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">What ever you will demand I shall give it.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Mallikadevi said, Lord, we have no need of anything, please give us permission to go to our Parent house.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">The king agreed to her proposal.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">She sent all the daughters-in- law to their's respective father house.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Mallikadevi worshipped the Buddha and His disciples as long as she lived.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">When the Buddha attained Mahaparinibbana at Kusinagar, Mallika Devi sold her precious gold ornament (Mahalata pasadhana) and made a stupa on the site of the Buddha's Mahaparinibbana as a token of regards.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Kundalakesi was the very beautiful daughter of a treasurer at Rajgir.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">When she was sixteen years old, she was kept in a room at the seven stairs of a palace .</sent>
				<sent id ="340">At this age the girl sometimes do mistake on their choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">They can not understand the right and the wrong deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">The treasurer engaged maid servants for her.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">No male member was allowed to go there.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">One day a very beautiful young man was caught at the time of stealing.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">The police guards were taking him to the place of execution.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">The daughter of the treasurer saw him and was attracted to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">She could not believe that the very young and beautiful man might steal.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">After having seen him, she did not take the meal and was thinking about him.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">She sent the news to her father to have him as a husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">If the father could not permit, she would commit suicide.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">The parents tried to make her understood that she lacked foresight and she would meet the result in near future.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Moreover, he was born in the womb of low caste.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">But the daughter of the treasurer was determined and would not marry any other person.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">If she cannot marry him, then death was her choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Having no other alternative the treasurer went to the chief of the guards and gave him one thousand rupees bribe.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">The chief murdered another person and took the dead body to the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Afterwards the beautiful girl of the treasurer was married to the thief.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">The thief husband conspired to steal her ornaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">He thought that he would fly away with the ornaments after murdering her.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">One day he made a trick and went to sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">He did not take meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The daughter of the treasurer began to think over the matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">She said to her husband, What happens to you? Have you any fever?</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Have my parents abused you?</sent>
				<sent id ="365">The thief said, No there happened no such event.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">I had a promise to offer a sacrifice to the deity of the Chora Prapat (The waterfall of the thieves) when I was taken to the place of execution so that I am rescued from the death-sentence.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Now I am alive with the blessing of the deity.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">I have married you.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">All these remind me to offer the sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">The daughter of the treasurer said, Don't worry about this.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">I am taking all the measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">The thief said, we need sweet rice-gruel, parched rice and four kinds of flowers for the sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">The daughter of the treasurer collected all these.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Her husband said to her, Be ready and wear the dress with all your ornaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Take all the articles for the sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Only both of us will go to the place of sacrifice and nobody will accompany.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">The daughter of the treasurer consented to the proposal and both of them went out for the Chora- Prapat situated in the dense forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">They climbed up the top of the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">At one side of the forest there is a way for the passers by and at other side a straight deep hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Here the accused ones are sentenced to death throwing them from the top of the hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">For this, the hole was called Chora Prapat.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Climbing up the top of the forest the thief said to his wife, I did not come here to offer the sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">I have taken you here to murder and to take all the ornaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">So be ready for your death.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">The daughter of the treasurer was astonished to hear his words.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">At first she was afraid and prayed to give her life back.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">She said, You take all my ornaments and go away.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">In exchange of all, you save my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">The thief said again, You will disclose all the events held here to your parents and they will file a case against me.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Then the guards of the king will catch me and give sentence to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">If I murder you, there will be no foe against me and none will know the event.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">The daughter of the treasurer began to weep.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">I have done so great deed for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">But today you are determined to murder me for the ornaments?</sent>
				<sent id ="395">What a misdeed I have done.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Now she began to think to save herself.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">She once more added, My beloved husband, you are my honoured person.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">One day I have rescued you from the sentence to death and have got you to marry me.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Today before my death I want to pay my honour to you, you give me an opportunity to touch your feet in obeisance.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">I hope, you will accept my last prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">The thief permitted her to fulfil her last desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">He stood there and the daughter of the treasurer moved round three times encircling him.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">She embraced her husband deeply and touched his feet with regard and said, This is my last meeting with you and never I shall see you again in my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Saying this, she encircled her once again and pushed him forcefully and he fell down into the hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">At the twinkling of moment he breathed his last.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Not only the men are learned and intellectual, the women are, sometimes advanced in the faculty of understanding and intellect.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">In some cases the man is defeated by the woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">The case of the daughter of the treasurer is the best example of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">The daughter of the treasurer did not go back to his father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">She threw the ornaments to the Chora-Prapat and went to the hermitage of an ascetic in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">She took ordination there.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">She began to learn all the doctrines prevalent at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">She finished the study of all the doctrines within a short period.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">The preceptor gave farewell to her and advised her to travel all over the Jambudvipa, (ancient India) to enquire of the questionnaires to defeat her in conversation with the doctrines.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Her preceptor gave her a branch of the Jambu tree (rose apple tree) and said, if any layman is able to answer all your questions, then you select him as your husband and if any mendicant Sraniana gives answers to all your questions, then you, take, ordination before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">The daughter of the treasurer began to travel from village to village with the branch of Jambu tree and henceforth she was called Jambu Paribrajika (lady wandering ascetic).</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Afterwards she went to the township but none was able in answering her questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">One day she put the branch of the Jambu tree under the sand at the entrance of the Jetavana vihara of Sravasti and went out for alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Sariputta was returning to the Jetavana vihara after begging alms and saw the sign of the branch.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Then a group of boys were playing round the branch.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">He heard all the news from the boys and ordered them to hand it down.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Jambu Paribrajika, after having alms, came to that place and asked Sariputta Thera who have handed the branch down?</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Sariputta Thera replied, Yes sister, I have picked up the branch.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">A meeting was held on that day for the religious conversation between Sariputta Thera and Jambu Paribrajika.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Jambu Paribrajikaa questioned Sariputta Thera one by one and Sariputta Thera answered all the questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Sariputta Thera said to her, You have asked so many questions, I will ask you only one question.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">What do you mean by eko or one?</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Jambu Paribrajika was not able to answer the question.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">She again said to Sariputta Thera, What is the answer to the question?</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Sariputta Thera in reply to the question said, This is the question of acquiring wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Paribrajika said, Reverend Sir, please show me the way to wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Paribrajika took ordination before Sariputta and became converted to the Buddhist faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Sariputta Thera sent her to the vihara of the Bhikkhunisangha (Monastery of the Sisters).</sent>
				<sent id ="434">She began to meditate with deep concentration and afterwards attained Arhatship.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">She was named Kundalakesi Theri.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">One day a discussion was held among the Bhikkhusangha (Congregation of the Elders):</sent>
				<sent id ="437">How did Theri Kundalakesi attain Arhatship within a short time?</sent>
				<sent id ="438">The Buddha heard their discussion and said, Should one recite hundred useless stanzas, better is a single stanza hearing which, one is pacified.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Though he should conquer thousands of men in the battle field, yet he indeed, the noblest victor who would conquer himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Hearing the gathas (Verses), so many Bhikkhus attained the fruition of the eye of wisdom.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
