<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-budh-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.52</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">408</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5250</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1727</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t47">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Thera is a Pali term.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Its Bengali meaning is Sthavir.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">There are three kinds of Theras, namely.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Jati Thera, Dhamma Thera and Sammati Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">He who becomes Thera automatically by old age is Jati Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">He who is proficient in the knowledge of Dhamma is Dhamma Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">He who spent 10 years after Upasampada or ordination as monk is Sammati Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The Bhikkhus constitute these three designations.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The Bhikkhunis are also treated as Theris in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">During the life time of the .Buddha, most of the eminent Theras are also Arhants.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Ananda Thera become Arhant during the first Great Buddhist Council after the Great Passing away of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Before that, he was a Dhamma Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">An Arhant means that he has vanquished the enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">These Theras and Theris have expressed their views in the gattias attributed to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">These gathas are called Thera-Theri gathas.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">These gathas are composed in Pali language.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Thera-Theri gathas are included in the Khuddaka Nikaya of the Sutta Pitaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">These two Scriptures contain the fruits and happiness of religious lives of the Thera-Theris.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Some Theras and Theris have uttered the gathas about the Jhana and Samadhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Sometimes they have expressed their rejoice of religious lives with questions and answers.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Apart from this, there are descriptions of the future of the Buddhasasana and the method to the Nibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The gathas of the Theras and Theris are solemn and poetical.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Happiness and sorrows of their lives have been reflected in the gathas (Verses).</sent>
				<sent id ="24">These gathas constitute timeless poetical utterances in Buddhist literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Gathas reflect the social, religious and cultural lives of the then ancient India.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The usefulness for the study of biographies of the Thera-Theris is of great importance to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The gathas of the Thera-Theris are divided into different Nipatas (canto).</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Some Theras have written only one gatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">This is called Ekakanipata.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Some others have composed two or three gathas.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">These are called Dukanipata or Tikanipata.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">In this way, the numbers of Nipatas have gradually increased upto twenty six or more Vangisa Thera has composed seventy gathas.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The Thera-gatha describes the biographies of 264 Theras where as 1360 total gathas are included in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Theri gatha also narrates the biographies of 78 Theris who have composed 522 gathas.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The gathas of Upali, Sariputta, Moggallayana, Kassapa, Ananda, Sivali Thera etc. are seen in the Thera-gatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Similarly, among the Theris eminent ones like, Ambapali, Uppalavanna, Khema, Mahapajapad Gotami, Anopanla, Patacara, Sujata etc. have composed the Theri-gatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">If we go through these gathas, we come to know about Buddhism and feel overwhelmed with stories of their sorrows and griefs.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">We also get inspiration from them to follow the truth path of salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">We find stories of many kings in the Buddhist literature as narrated by Thera, Theris.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">These kings, emperors and nobles have contributed much for the propagation of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">They have dedicated monasteries to the Buddha and the Bhikkhusangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They sent missioneries home and abroad to preach the fundamental teachings of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">King Bimbisara and Ajatasattu helped to propagate Buddhism during the life time of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">King Binibisara wanted to offer high position to Gautama Siddhartha at royal palace when He had visited Rajagaha, the captial of Magadha as an ascetic after His great renunciation.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He dedicated Venuvana vihara to the Buddha and the Bhikkhu Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The first Buddhist Council was held at Sattapanni cave of Rajagaha under the patronage of king Ajatasattu.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The second Buddhist Council was also convened at Vesali financed by king Kalasoka, the son of Sisunaga as He was a follower of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">It took place one hundred years after the Parinibbana of the Great Teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Thereafter, the emperors of Maurya dynasty contributed much for the development of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">We have heard the name of emperor Asoka.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">He was called Mahamati for his kindness to all living beings and also for his contribution to Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The religious principles of Asoka constituted the main basis of Buddha's teachings.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">He sent Buddhist missioneries to Egypt, Syria, Greece etc, in the west and Ceylon (Srilanka), Burma (Myanmar) and also in the Far East.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Milinda; the king of Afganistan was also a patron of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Kaniska, the greatest emperor of Kushandynasty was devoted to Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Apart from these, the great kings, Kumaragupta, Harshavardhan and others have done much for spreading Buddha's teachings.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Buddhism also flourished in the age of Pala kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Gopala, Dharmapala, Devapala, Mahipala, Rampala, Nayapala etc. the kings of Pala dynasty were the primordial devotees of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Among the lay-devotees, Anathapindika, Visakha, Jeta etc. sacrificed their lives for the benefit of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">We are also familiar with Dharmakirti, Santarakkhita, Padmasambhava, Atish Dipankar, Abhayankar, Kamalasila, the eminent Bhikkhus of ancient Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">All these kings, emperors, Bhikkhus and lay-devotees dedicated their 92 Buddhist Religious Studies lives for the upliftment of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">We get inspiration by reading biographies of the Thera-Theris, kings and lay-devotees who made outstanding contribution to Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">You will find their bioghaphies in other books also.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Sariputta and Moggallayana Thera Sariputta and Moggallayana are the two most outstanding monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Both of them were the two presiding Theras among the disciples of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Sariputta would sit by the right hand and Moggallayana by the left hand of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Hence, they are as the right hand and left hand disciples of the Great master.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Sariputta by knowledge and Moggallayana by psychic power were the best of all the Theras.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Again, Aggasavaka Sariputta was called; Dhammasenapati and Moggallayana was popular as Aggasavaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Sariputta was born not far from Rajagaha near the township of Upatissa.of</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Rupasari brahmani and on the same day Moggallayana was born near Rajagaha at the township of Kolita, of Moggali brahmani.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Both were sons of the head of his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The first one was named Upatissa, the second one Kolita.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">As the first one was the son of Rupasari, he was called Sariputta and as the second one was the son of Moggali, he was addressed as Moggallayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Both the boys were, reared in luxury and excelled in all accomplishments.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They had immense wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">One day they went to witness a drama near a place in Rajagaha and they had the feeling of renunciation.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">They left the chariot and went to wonderer Sanjaya Velatthiputta.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">They took Ordination before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Within a short time, they learnt all the teachings of Sanjaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">They asked the Guru whether he had known the way to ultimate salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">They wanted to know the path of emancipation so that they would not have to undergo birth, sorrow and death.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Sanjaya kept silent about this question.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Then the two friends took permission of the Guru and went out to seek the path of salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">At that time, the Buddha after preaching the Dhammacakra Pavattana at Sarnath, were residing in theVenuvana vihara of Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">One day Assajit, a disciple of the Buddha went out for alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Sariputta was highly attracted on seeing him and he went before Assajit and asked him, Venerable Sir, who is your preceptor?</sent>
				<sent id ="88">What is his norm?</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Assajit replied : The Sammasambuddha Mahasamana of the Sakya clan is my preceptor.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In relation to the norm, he quoted Buddha as having said, There is cause behind everything in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Nothing originates without cause.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">There is cessation to the cause.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">This is to say, there is the Truth of suffering, the Origin of suffering, the Extinction of suffering, the Path leading to suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">So the Buddha is Nibbanavadi (Preacher of Emancipation).</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Sariputta attained the fruition of Sotapatti (stream of path) after hearing the gist of Buddha's teaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">He uttered the same verse to his friend Moggallayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">At this Moggallayana also attained the fruition of Sotapatti.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Then Moggallayana said to Sariputta, Friend, let us go to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Before leaving both of them went to their previous teacher Sanjaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Because they decided to go to the Buddha with their previous teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">But Sanjaya said to them, You go to the Tathagata, I shall not go.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Sanjaya did not agree to go to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Seeing this most of the disciples of Sanjaya left him and left to meet the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Sanjaya could not tolerate the situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">He was overwhelmed with sorrow, vomitted blood and died.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Sariputta and Moggallayana with their retinue s proceeded towards Rajagaha at Venuvana vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The Buddha understood the fact seeing Sariputta and Moggallayana at distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He addressed them, Ahi Bhikkhu and ordained them.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Afterwards all other wanderers became ordained and attained the fruition of Arhatship except Sariputta and Moggallayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Sariputta and Moggallayana were the best of all the disciples of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">But yet why did they attain the fruition of Arhatship at delay?</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Suppose, if the public wish to go elsewhere they can easily be ready.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">In case of the kings, it takes time for readiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Same illustration is applicable to Sariputta and Moggallayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">There by the Venerable Moggallaiyana on the seventh day and Sariputta on the 15th day attained the highest sanctification of Arhatship after their Ordination.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The wisdom of Sariputta was extraordinary.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">He would explain the summarized teachings of the Buddha elaborately in simple and lucid language.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">His main thinking is that, Man is mortal.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Man can die at any moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">For, it is good to be always ready for death.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">It is improper to meet extinction amidst limitless sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">It is wise to utilize the opportunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">For it is hard to regain an opportunity when it is lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Moggallayana Thera was in possession of extra-ordinary psychic power.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">He would preach the doctrine by flying all over heaven, earth and hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He would describe the painful condition of the hell when he had come back from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">In the same way, he would praise the beauties of the heaven when he had descended from the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Hence his instructions were always attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">One day the two disciples went to the Avici Hell to see the condition of Devadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">When they returned from the Avici and had narrated the painful condition of Devadatta, his followers were angry and conspired to murder Sariputta and Moggallayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">King Ajatasattu hearing the news, imprisoned the conspirators.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Afterwards, the king raised the question to Moggallayana, You are an influential Arhat.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Why are you not able to protect your life?</sent>
				<sent id ="134">In reply to the question, Moggallayana said O king I can protect my life easily from the grip of the foe but I have to give up my life within a week for the consequence of previous ill deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">I have given troubles to my parents in the former birth for which I have to suffer.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Saying this he had shown psychic power.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">In the seventh day of this incident, he passed away to Nibbana while staying at the Kalasela forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The Buddha ordered His disciples to preserve, the remains of Moggllayana to the east of Venuvana vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Sariputta went to the complete extinction, that is, Nibbana at his own native villages house in the full-moon day of Kattika when the sun was rising.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">There are six gathas of his own in the Thera-gatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Their cremation was done in a befitting manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Anathapindika, the treasurer built a stupa at Savatthi on the remains of Sariputta with the permission of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">These two foremost disciples are in preaching the Buddha's doctrine for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Khema was the first wife of king Bimbisara.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">She was exquisitely beautiful with skin as bright as gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">She was born at Sagala of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Known as Khema, she was proud of her physical beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Once the Buddha was living in the Venuvana vihara of Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">At that time all went to meet the Buddha and pay homage to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">But Khema did not go because of pride of her beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Khema thought that Buddha would look down upon her pride of beauty and she would then be unable to stand her denunciation by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">With this thought she did not want to meet the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The king then asked all to go to the Garden and eloquently praise beauty of Khema.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The order of the king was obeyed and all praised the beauty of Khema.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Only then Khema agreed to visit the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">When Khema went to the Buddha, He understood everything and created a supernatural scene.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The Buddha by mystic potency, conjured up a woman like a celestial nymph, who stood fanning Him with a palm-leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Khema, seeing her, thought : Verily the Exalted One has around Him a woman as lovely as goddess, I am not fit even to wait upon such.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">I am undone by base and mistaken notions.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Then as she looked, at that woman stead fast then according to wishes of the Master that nymph passed from youth to middle age and old age, till with broken teeth, gray hair and wrinkled skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">She fell to earth with her palm-leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Then Khema, thought; Has such a body come to be a wreck like that?</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Then so will my body be also !</sent>
				<sent id ="164">And the Master, knowing her thoughts said, They who are slaves to lust drift down the stream, Like to a spider gliding down the web.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">They who are released from all bondage and attain best virtue Forsake the world, and refrain from Pleasure of enjoyment.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Just as the Buddha had finished the verse, Khema attained Arhatship, together with thorough grasp of the norm in form and meaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">She understood the impermanence of the body and was determined to renounce the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">With the consent of king Bimbisara, she entered as a member of the Order of Nun (Bhikkhunisangha).</sent>
				<sent id ="169">There after she became known for her great insight and ranked foremost here in by the Exalted One, seat in the conclave of Aryans at the Jetavana vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">She acquired admiration from all the members about the Dhamma-Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The Buddha ranked her Aggasavika.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">As she sat one day in siesta under a tree, Mara the Evil one, in youthful shape, drew near, tempting her with sensuous ideas.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Theri-Khema composed verses about this incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">These verses were known as the gathas of Theri Khema.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">These gathas are described in six verses.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The first verse was uttered by Mara-in the following sense - Thou are fair and life is young, beautious Khema!</sent>
				<sent id ="177">I am young, even.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">I, too-come, O fairest lady!</sent>
				<sent id ="179">While in our ear five fold harmonies murmur melodious, seek we our pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Through this body vile, foul seat of disease and corruption, Loathing I feel, and oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Cravings of lust are uprooted.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Lust of the body and sense mind cut like daggers and javelins.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Speak not to me of delighting in aught of sensuous and pleasure!</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Verily all such vanities now no more may delight me.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Slain on all sides is the love of the world, the flesh and the devil.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Rent asunder the gloom of ignorance once that beset me.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Know this, O Evil one!</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Destroyer, know thyself worsted.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Lo! ye who blindly worship constellations of heaven, ye who fostering fire in cool grove, wait upon Agni lgnorant are ye all, ye foolish and young of the real, deeming ye thus might find purification from evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Lo I as for me, I worship the Enlightened, the uttermost Human, utterly free from all sorrow, doer of Buddha's commandment.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">At this Mara returned to his destination duly defeated by Theri Khema.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Khema practised ardously during the lives of previous births.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">She, when Padumuttara was Buddha, became a slave to others, dependent for her livelihood on the others at Hansavati.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">One day seeing Sujata seeking alms, she gave him three sweet cakes respectfully and prayed saying;</sent>
				<sent id ="195">May I in the future life become a disciple of a Buddha?</sent>
				<sent id ="196">After many fortunate rebirths as both gods and men, she became a human when Vipassi was Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Renouncing the world, she became a learned preacher of the Norm.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Reborn, when Kakusandhst was Buddhah, in a wealthy family.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">She made a great park for the order and delivered it over to the order of monks with the Buddha at their head.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">She did this again when Konagamana was Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">When Kassapa was Buddha she became the eldest daughter of king Kikir, named Samoni lived a pious life and gave a cell to the order.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Finally, at the time of Gautama Buddha she was born in the royal family of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">At the time of the present Buddha, there lived a treasurer named Mendaka in the city of Vaddiya.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">He had a son named Dhananjaya and the name of his son's wife was Sumanadevi.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">They had a daughter whose name was Visakha.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">When Visakha was seven years old, one day the Buddha came to the Vaddiya city.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Treasurer Mendak ordered Visakha with her five hundred companies to serve the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The Enlightened One was highly pleased at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The Master gave her some meaningful admonitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Visakha was attracted to the Buddha on hearing the counsels.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">There lived at Savatthi a treasurer Migara, who had a grown up son named Punna Vaddhana.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Vistjkha was married to Punna Vaddhana.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Visakha's father sent her bridegroom's house accompanied by slaves, cows, chariots, invaluable gems and jewels.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">When it was time for Visakha to depart, her father enjoined upon her the observance of ten injunctions.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">These are still recited in the marriage ceremony.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The indoor fire is not to be carried outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">It means that a wife must say nothing about the faults of her father-in- law or husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The outdoor fire is not to be carried inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">It means that a wife must not tell her father-in-law or husband anything ill she hears of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Give only to him that gives.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">It means that one should give only to those that return borrowed articles.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Give not to him that gives not.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">It means that one should not give to those that do not return borrowed money.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Give both to him that give and to him that gives not.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">It means that when poor folk seek assistance, one should give to them, whether they are able to repay or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">It means that a wife must not eat until she has served her husband and his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Treasurer Migara observed his son's wedding ceremony for seven days.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Then Visakha was fifteen years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Pasenadi Kosala wits present in marriage ceremony with his armed forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Treasurer Migara was the worshipper of the heretical teachers (Nigganthas).</sent>
				<sent id ="231">One day he brought Visakha before his preceptor at the time of worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Visakha was ashamed of the fact when she saw the naked ascetic.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The heretical teacher understood the thought of Visakha and said, This woman is the follower of Gautama Buddha and let her be out of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">If it is not done you will be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">One day an Arhat came to treasurer Migara's house for alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Visakha said to him :`Reverend Sir, please go to other house, my father-in-law has been taking washed rneal.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Migara became angry with Visakha and said to her, Go away from this house.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Visakha said in reply, I am not a bond-maid servant so that you may easily drive me out.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">My father had engaged eight respectful persons to protect me in case of any problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">I shall go away to my father's house if they found me guilty.'</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Thiss was duly informed to them and when they reached, Visakha said to them, My father- in law- has been taking washed meal;</sent>
				<sent id ="242">it means that he has been endowed with the previous merit for which it happens so.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Visakha was in favour of the judgernent.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Another incident had taken place.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">One day at night Visakha went out with the lamp to nurse the delivery of a mare.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Then Migara on recollecting the first injunction given toVisakha by her father, said to her: Did your father not tell you to carry the indoor fire outside?</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Visakha replied, Yes, my father did so.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">According to his advice, I have said nothing about the fault of my father-in-law or husband outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">In this connection, she explained all the injunctions to her father-in-law.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Treasurer Migara understood his faults.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">As Migara was disposed to favour the naked ascetics and in his house Visakha missed the Buddhist atmosphere to which she had been accustomed in her house, was ready to go away to her father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Treasurer Migara confessed his faults and requested her to stay in his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Then Visakha said, You are devoted to the naked ascetic, I am the worshipper of Triratna.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">If you give me permission to donate and hear the Buddha's doctrine, I can stay here''.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Migara agreed to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">After a few days, the Buddha came to stay at Jetavana vihara of Savatthi.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Visakha asked permision to invite Him and His fraternity to the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Punna Vaddhana, her husband, did not refuse her request.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">She accordingly received them the next day and sent word twice to her father-in-law to come and hear the Buddha's exposition of the Norm, Migara consented.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">the naked ascetics, whose doctrine he also had hitherto believed in asked him to hear exposition of the Dhamma from behind the curtain.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The naked ascetics thought that the Buddha had magical power and under the spell of the magic He would impress treasurer Migara and convert him as His disciple.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">So the Treasurer Migara sat behind the curtain.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Buddha then addressed the Treasurer and said, Wherever you may sit whether behind the curtain or behind the wall or hill or even behind the horizon , my words will reach there.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Saying this the Buddha began His exposition of the Dhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Hearing the exposition he attained the fruition of Sotapatti.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Migara was delighted with joy and said to Visakha in front of the Buddha ; Mother, you has rescued me as a son and from this day forth you are my rnother.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">For this Visakha is referred to as Migaras mother as she converted her father-in-law to Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Treasurer Migara spent forty crores coins for the dissemination of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Doors were hence forth kept open at their house for the Buddha and His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Visakha would go to Jetavana vihara thrice daily.with</sent>
				<sent id ="271">food, garland and incense for the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">She was granted eight boons by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">To feed five hundred Bhikkhus daily as long as she lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">To arrange the treatment of the sick Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">To provide food, clothes and shelter to the Bhikkhus staying at the Jetavana vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">To supply medicine to the Bhikkhus at Jetavana vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">To donate five hundred robes to the Bhikkhus during rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">To take share of her supplied food by the Buddha Himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">To give Kandupaticchadana (Coverage to the affected Bhikkhus with itch) to 500 hundred Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Visakha had ten sons and ten daughters.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Each of them had ten children.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">All of them were happy with strength and resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">It is said that Visakha was strong so as to defeat the drunken elephant.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">She set up a monastery called Pubbarama at her ripe age after selling all her ornaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">She dedicated the monastery to the Buddha and His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">She became famous as Mahaupasika the chief of the female lay devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Bimbisara was the famous king of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">At the time of the Buddha, Magadha was the best kingdom among the sixteen Mahajanapadas.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">It was a prosperous kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Rajagriha was the capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Bimbisara became king at the age of He became Upasaka of the Buddha at his age of 29 and made efforts for progress and development of Buddhism in various ways for 36 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">He attained the fruition of Arhathood after hearing the discourses of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">He lost his kingdom to his son Ajatasattu when Buddha was After sometime, he attained Nirbana at the age of 65.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">The Buddha after His Enlightenment preached His first sermon at Sarnath and afterwards, He went to Bimbisara, the king of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The king received Him with honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">The Master delivered to him the discourses of Dana (Charity), Sila JPrecept) and Saggakatha (The topic of Heaven).</sent>
				<sent id ="297">He also explained the four Noble Truths and the Eightfold path ; Bimbisara was converted into Buddha's Faith with his retinue.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">He became the chief lay-devotee of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">At his request, the Buddha introduced so many Vinaya's rules when He was staying at Venuvana vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The wayfarers of other religions would generally observe the Uposatha day in the week and the Fortnight.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">At this, the king requested the Buddha to make Uposatha day compulsory for His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">The Buddha accepted his request and framed the rules for the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Famous physician Jivaka.was</sent>
				<sent id ="304">physician of Bimbisara.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">He treated the Buddha and the Bhikkhu Sangha at the order of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Bimbisara's father was Bhattiya or Mahapadma.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">King Mahapadma was defeated in a battle by Brahmadatta, the king of Anga.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Bimbisara ascended the throne after his father's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">He defeated the king of Anga and restored the lost territory.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">The foundation of Magadha Empire was laid by this victory.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Present day East Bihar was the then Anga kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Bimbisara established marital relationship with the royal dynasties of Madra, Kosala and Vaisali.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">This helped in the extension of his empire.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">He sent Emissary to the kingdoms of Gandhara.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">This led to establishment of friendly relations between the two countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">He established friendship with Pradyot, the king of Avanti.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">He attained a village in Kashi through his wife belonging to Kosala dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">He earned a lot of revenue from that village.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">His kingdom of Magadha extended upto north-western Nepal as a result of his marital relationship with royal family of Vaisali.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">He built up the ancient city of Rajagriha whose remains still exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Nalanda is situated not far from Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">He was an able administrator and alwavs thought of the welfare of his subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Capital Rajagriha was surrounded by five hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Stone walls surrounded his palace and the ruins are still existing.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">The land of this kingdom was very fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">The river Shona mingled with the Ganga near Patna flowed through this kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">His army had great experience in the art of warfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">He used elephants in battles and so winning was quite easy for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">From his time, small kingdoms were led into big kingdom, slowly monarchy emerged in place of a previous system when king was elected by the puple.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">After Bimbisara his son became king.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Ajatasattu imprisoned his father and kept him under starvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Only his queen, could see him and she used to carry food stealthily to the prison every day and kept him alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Ajatasattu stopped taking the food to prison stealthily by the queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">At last, Bimbisara attained Nibbana inside the prison.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">He erected and donated the Venuvana vihara to the Buddha and His Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">In that place, at present a new vihara has been constructed which is also named the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Prasenjit was the king of Kosala and son of Mahakosala.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Pasenadi is the Pali translation.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">He was the famous king of Kosala kingdom and contemporary of Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Bimbisara, the king of Magadha, Chandra Pradyut, the ruler of Ujjayani and the Buddha Himself were of the same age.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">When Prasenjit went to meet the Master at Jetavana of Savatthi, He preached him the exposition of the Norm about the bad and good effects of action.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">The king was pleased on hearing the religious doctrine and became a follower of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">He helped in the propagation of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">From time to time he took advice from the Buddha to maintain his family and religious life.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">He gave an offering of vihara to the Sangha at Savatthi.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Bimbisara, the king of Magadha married the sister of Prasenjit.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">He got Savatthi as a token of dowry.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Later, when Bimbisara was imprisoned by his son Ajatasattu and died there,; Savatti was taken back.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">In this connection there arose a war between Prasenjit and his nephew Ajatasattu.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">In this war Prasenjit was defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">On his return to his capital, he got married with Mallika, a beautiful daughter of a gardener.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Prasenjit placed her as the chief queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">She was known in the Buddhist literature as Kosala Mallikadevi.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">King Prasenjit wanted to marry a daughter of Sakya clan and sent an envoy there.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Sakyas never establish marital relationship with any one other than their own clan.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">They however understood that the Sakyas may face danger if they do not accept proposal of a powerful king like Prasenjit.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Hence Sakyas sought to tackle the situation through trickery.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">At that time king Suddhodana already died.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">His nephew Mahanam was then the king of Sakyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Vasabhakshatriya, daughter of Mahanam was born in the womb of slave Nagmunda.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">He gave her in marriage to Prasenjit.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">A son was born to Vasabhakshatriya, who was named Vidudabha.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">At that point the trickery of Sakya was found out.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">The Sakya insulted, Vidudabha as the son of slave.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Vidudabha then was seeking opportunity to take revenge of this insult.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">He dethroned Prasenjit with the help of commander-in-chief of Kosala.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Prasenjit fled to Sravasti and died within a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Then Vidudabha attacked Kapilavastu and exterminated the Sakyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">But on conclusion of the battle while returning home he was killed along with his army in a deluge of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Kosala was a very prosperous kingdom during the time of king Prasenjit.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Sravasti was the capital of Kosala.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">This was a main centre of pilgrimage for the Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Prasenjit built the Rajakarani vihara in Jetavana of Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">He built a guest house here at the request of Mallika Devi, the principal queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">This is known as Maltikaram.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Buddha used to preach His sermon here.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">There was deep forest named Anjan forest not far from Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">King Prasenjit used to go on hunting there.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">A disciple of the Buddha, Gabampati used to live here.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Theri Sujata heard the discoursed the Buddha here and attained Arhatship.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Prasenjit was a charitable king.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">One day he invited the Buddha along with His five hundred discipies at Jetavana.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Then he invited the citizens and told them, Look here at my Dana.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">The citizens witnessed the king having made Dana.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Then the citizens also invited the Buddha with His disciples and invited the king to witness their Dana.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Having witnessed this, the king thought my subjects have made greater Dana than me.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Then the king decided to arrange Maha Dana.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">In this way the king and the subjects were engaged in a competition for Dana.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Every time the king was defeated and thought he could never make Dana like his subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Having learnt this, queen Mallika organised a big Dana.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">the king distributed the materials of Dana in his own hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">He made salutation to the Buddha and said, I have made gift of all objects for your use during this Dana?</sent>
				<sent id ="393">A total amount of fourteen crore currency was spent for this from the royal treasury.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">King Prasenjit was engaged in war with Ajatasatru for the village Kashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Prasenjit was defeated thrice in the face-to-face battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Then he thought, I have been defeated thrice in my battle with a young person.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">These words of shame spread in all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Hearing this the Buddha said, The person who wins makes more-enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">He who is defeated suffer more.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">But he wins more than victory and defeat can enjoy peace!</sent>
				<sent id ="401">King Prasenjit once went to the Buddha and said, Reverend, I used to suffer earlier for over eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">I am happy now with moderate eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Earlier I was engaged in battle with my nephew Ajatasatru.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Now I have given my daughter Vajira in marriage with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">I have presented him the village Kashi as dowry.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Now I have no quarrel with Ajatasatru.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">I lost my gem symbolic of glory of my kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Now I have regained it.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
