<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-eco-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.627</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">592</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">9922</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2011</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t49">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Man is confronted with innumerable wants from the cradle to the grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">If one want is satisfied, other wants emerge in succession.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">To satisfy these wants man is engaged in different activities in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">But the means are limited in relation to unlimited wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">So man is constantly striving to satisfy unlimited wants with limited means.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The nature of human wants and the efforts to satisfy them are the same today as it was during the earliest stage of the creation of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">But at present wants have increased manifold and the means to satisfy have expanded as compared to before.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Due to the scarcity of resources economic problems have also increased unlike what was before.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The science of Economics or economics has emerged as a discipline to discuss how men are engaged in different activities to earn money and how do they endeavour to satisfy unlimited wants with limited means.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The knowledge of economics is indispensable to know about how best to solve the manifold economic problems by the proper utilization of resources in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Human wants are unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">If one want is satisfied, other wants appear successively.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">In his daily life man faces the unlimited wants of goods like food, clothing, housing, medicine etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">To buy these goods money is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Again, he spends his earned money to buy essential goods to satisfy his wants by the consumption of those goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In this way men are engaged in activities related to earning money and spending those earned money to satisfy their wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Those activities are economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">So, the economic activities of man are of two types: Money earning related activities and (B) money spending related activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The main objects of economic activities are to satisfy wants by the consumption of goods and services.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Barring money earning and money spending activities, all other activities like singing as hobby, nurturing and nursing of babies etc. are not economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Because, those activities are not related to earning and sending of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Again, earning of money by either stealing or begging is not considered as economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Because, these activities are unethical and socially undesirable.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">So, in economics, economic activities mean those activities related to money earning and money spending which men do in their day to day life.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">For example, farming, jobs in the factories and offices, business and commerce, activities of fishing, livestock, blacksmith, pottery and other professions, buying and selling of goods etc. are included in economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Economic activities depend on the socio economic condition of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Due to changes in the life styles at present, our wants and demands are gradually increasing unlike the past time.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">But as compared to this, the supply of resources is relatively scarce.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">As a result at present the scope of economic activities is expanding.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">A man is to be engaged in more activities to satisfy his ever increasing wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">As for example, it is seen in many cases that a man is engaged in other activities like business after finishing his daily work in the factory or office.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Again, a farmer tries to earn to increase his income by fishing or by running business side by side with his farming profession.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">In the society people spend their earned money to buy necessary goods and services.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">All such activities of earning and spending of money are their daily economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Human beings are constantly doing different activities in order to satisfy their multifarious wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The nature of economic activities of a country depends on the geographic and economic condition, ethnic characteristics, population, rate of literacy, stage of development and the overall socio- economic condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Most of the people of a poor and developing country are engaged in primary occupation.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">On the other hand, most of the people of the developed and the industrialized countries are employed in the jobs of the industries and factories and other organizations, trade and commerce, different technical professions etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Bangladesh is a developing and agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">It is industrially under developed and its literacy rate is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">For these reasons most of the people of Bangladesh are engaged in agriculture, poultry and livestock, fish cultivation, small cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Besides, people earn their livelihood by doing other economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Agriculture: Bangladesh is an agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The occupation of the 70% people of this country is agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">They grow different crops on land and earn money in exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">So, agriculture is the main economic activities of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Trade and commerce: Large number of rural and urban people of Bangladesh earn their livelihood by running small and medium scale businesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Beside this in urban area a large number of people are engaged in large trade & commerce.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Service: Job in the offices and courts, educational institutions, different govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">organizations is one of the important economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">A large number of labourers, employees and officers work in those places and earn money.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Works in small and cottage industries: There are different types of small and cottage industries in the rural and urban areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Many people of the country are engaged in the production of different goods and earn their livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">So, such activities are important economic activities of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Fish cultivation and catching of fish : In Bangladesh fish is cultivated on commercial basis in the places like ponds, tanks etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Moreover, our fishermen catch fishes in canals, beels, rivers, seas etc. and they earn money from its sale.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">So, cultivation and catching of fish is an important economic activity of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Running of transports: Many people in Bangladesh earn their livelihood by running and managing their transports on the roads and sea-routes.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Earning income by running transports like buses, trucks, scooters, rickshas, push-cart, bullock cart, launches, boats etc is also important economic activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Poultry & livestock: In our country earning of livelihood is done on a limited scale by means of poultry and livestock business.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Money is earned by raising farms of cattle, buffalo, sheep, and poultry.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">In recent times many have come forward to take up trade of poultry and livestock as means of self-employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Besides, many other petty professions are included in the economic activities of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">For example, washer men, tailors, blacksmiths, potters, cobblers etc earn money from their professions across the villages and towns of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">In addition, there are activities of flowers and vegetable cultivation, contractual business, masonry and carpentry.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">In fact, there is a variety of economic activities in a developing country like Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The English term Economics is derived from the Greek word Oikonomia.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Its meaning is household management.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Economics was first read in ancient Greece.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Aristotle, the Greek Philosopher termed Economics as a science of household management.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">But with the change of time and progress of civilization, the economic condition of man changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">As a result, an evolutionary change in the definition of Economics is noticed.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Towards the end of the eighteenth century Adam Smith, the celebrated English Economist and the Father of Economics, termed Economics as the Science of Wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">According to him, Economics is a science that enquires into the nature and causes of the wealth of nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">In other words, how wealth is produced and how it is used, are the subject-matter of Economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">For the first time, Adam Smith gave a separate and formal status of science to economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">In the subsequent period Alfred Marshall defined Economics by saying, Economics is a study of mankind in the ordinary business of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Ordinary business, according to Marshall, means money earning and money spending activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In other words, according to Marshal, Economics studies not only the wealth but also the activities centering the wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">In modern times more realistic definitions have been given to economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">In social life human wants are unlimited, but the means to satisfy those wants are scarce.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Economics studies how to use the limited resources to satisfy the unlimited wants of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">In the words of Lionel Robins, the modern economist, Economics is a science which studies human behaviour as relationship between ends and scarce means which have alternative uses.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Prof. Robins has termed economics concisely as the science of scarcity.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">So, Economics as a social science studies how people perform economic activities and how they try to satisfy unlimited wants by the proper use of limited resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Different Issues Relating to the Definition of Economics In discussing the definition of economics, some points are observed.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">It is necessary to explain those points for easier understanding of the definition and nature of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Human wants are unlimited: There is no end to the limits of human wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">When one or two wants are satisfied, more new wants are felt successively.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">For example, when a man satisfies his basic wants like food, clothing, housing etc, he will then feel the wants of different goods to lead a better standard of living.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Gradually that man will feel the need for consuming better goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In this way the number of human wants increases unending.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Means to satisfy the wants are scarce: To every man in the society the means or resources to satisfy wants are limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In other words, men do not get the resources which are needed to satisfy the unlimited wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">This is a problem not only to the poor, but also to the rich as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The wants of a rich man are more than those of an ordinary man and such wants go on increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">So, the resources are always scarce in relation to the wants of the individuals, the state or the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The satisfaction of unlimited wants with limited means: It is the problem for every man in the society as how to satisfy the unlimited wants with the limited means.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">At a particular time a man cannot satisfy all his wants with the money he has.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Under this situation he is to choose the more urgent wants and tries to satisfy those wants with the limited means first, leaving all other wants for subsequent period to satisfy.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Alternative use of resources: Since the means are scarce in relation to wants, no man can satisfy all his wants with a given means at a particular time.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">In such case, he can use his scarce means to satisfy the prioritized wants only.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Let us take a hypothetical case.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">A man feels the wants of both motor cycle and electric fan at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">But with the money he has, he can buy either of the two.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">If he thinks that want of cycle is more necessary, he can use his given money to buy the bicycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In that case, his want for electric fan will remain unsatisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Thus a limited or given resource can be put to satisfy one want as alternative to the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">This is known as alternative use of resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">In the field of agriculture one piece of land can be used for the cultivation of rice as an alternative to that of jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Economics is a social science.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The subject matter of economics deals with the analysis of economic problems of men in the society and the satisfaction of their wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">With the evolutionary changes of the society and its civilization, the subject matter and scope of economics have expanded.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">As social science economics deals with the economic activities of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">His day to day money earning and money spending activities constitute the subject matter of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">For example, parents affection and nursing service for their children are not the subject matter of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">But the service of a salaried nurse in the hospital is included in the subject matter of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">In this regard the economist Cairncross said, Economics studies the part played by money in human affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Resources are needed to satisfy human wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">So, the availability of resources and their use are important subject matter of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Adam Smith, the father of economics, has termed economics as the Science of Wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Human wants are unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">But the resources to satisfy the wants are scarce.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Economics discusses how man can get the maximum satisfaction by using the scarce means to satisfy wants on the basis of priority.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">So, as subject matter of economics, the scarcity of resources is considered very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Economics discusses human welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">How properly the scarce resources are used for the attainment of maximum welfare of individuals and the society is the subject matter of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Human wants are related to production, exchange, distribution and consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Again, currency, banking system, public finance, trade etc are also parts of economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Economics discusses these issues also.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Besides, how economic development of the country is achieved through the means of economic planning is also included in the subject matter of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Economics discusses the economic problems and economic activities and indicates proper solution to these problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Economics also discusses about the value judgment of human actions and behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It appears from the above discussion that the subject matter of economics is vast.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">So, Professor Viner has rightly said, What the economists discuss come under the subject matter of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">In modern times the importance of the study of economics is infinite.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It not only provides us knowledge, but also helps to solve the different problems in real life.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The importance of economics in different areas of human life is discussed below:</sent>
				<sent id ="139">In the daily life of man: Man is confronted with manifold wants in his/her daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">But the resources to satisfy those wants are limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">By studying economics we can know the use of limited resources to satisfy alternative wants on the basis of priority.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">In the proper use of resources: We can learn about the use of resources with the knowledge of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Study of economics helps us to understand about how to produce the maximum output by the proper use of the limited resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">To the business community and to the industrialists: Problems of demand, supply, pricing, risk taking etc emerge in the areas of trade, commerce and industrial production.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The leaders of business can solve these problems and take correct decisions for the future by applying the knowledge of economics and its theories.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">In state management: The knowledge of economics is indispensable to manage the economic and development activities of a state.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">For this reason the politicians and the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">officers need to have proper knowledge of the currency system, banking system, tax system, industrial and trade policy, budgeting etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The Knowledge of economics helps in managing the state affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">To social workers: Economic causes lie at the roots of maximum social problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The social workers need to have knowledge of economics to diagnose and solve the problems of poverty, unemployment, illiteracy, excessive growth of population, lack of housing and medical facilities etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">To the labour leaders: The leaders of the workers should have the knowledge of economics for improving their bargaining capacity in respect of the formation of trade unions, the increase of wage and other benefits, the improvement of their working conditions etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">In economic Planning: It is necessary to have sound knowledge of the economic problems and the available resources for the formulation and implementation of economic plans for the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">For this reason the knowledge of economics is indispensable.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Acquisition of knowledge of international issues: The knowledge of economics is necessary to know and understand the socio economic events of different countries, international relationship, commerce etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Development of intellectual faculties and the attainment of civic qualities: The study of economics helps to develop the intellectual faculties and thought processes of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It further helps in the development of their social values and civic qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">So the importance of the study of economics in different aspects of human life can hardly be denied.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Economist Barbara Wootton has rightly said, Barring the minimum knowledge of economics no man can be the good citizen in the true sense of the term.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Importance of the Study of Economics in the Context of Bangladesh Bangladesh is a developing country.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Here we have the problems of poverty, unemployment, over population, food deficiency, under development of agriculture and industry, shortage of capital etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The knowledge of economics is needed to identify properly the causes of these problems and to suggest their solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Knowledge of economics is further necessary to know about how to increase agricultural production and to control population explosion, how to increase the efficiency of labour and how to increase the scope of self-employment in agriculture and industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In Bangladesh economic development is indispensable to increase per capita income and the standard of living.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Active participation of people in the development activities is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">People of all stages are to be educated with the awareness of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Then they will know about the economic problems of the country and they will be aware of the necessity of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Unlike the developed countries the economic problems of Bangladesh are many.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">So, the study of economics is very important in this country to solve these problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Economic development through proper and planned utilization of the limited resources is to be accelerated.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">So, the knowledge of economics is highly important to all concerned with the state management, trade & commerce, production management, development planning etc. Human wants are unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">If one want is satisfied, then many other wants follow in succession.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">If a man satisfies his basic wants like food, clothing, housing, he then feels the wants of better food, better cloth and many other things to get more satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">But the means or the resources to satisfy the unlimited wants are scarce.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Due to scarcity of the resources he cannot satisfy all of his wants at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In the course of satisfying unlimited wants with the limited means or resources, man faces two basic economic problems: namely, problem of the scarcity of resources and problem of choice of wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Problem of the scarcity of resources: Scarcity of resources is the root cause of all economic problems of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">In all areas of individuals or the state, resources are scarce in relation to their demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">If the resources were freely and abundantly available side by side with the unlimited wants, no economic problem would emerge.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">So, scarcity of resources is behind all economic problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Problem of the choice of wants: Wants are many and means are few.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">For this reason man cannot satisfy all his wants at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">In this situation he is to think, out of unlimited wants, what wants he has to choose first and what others next.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Here comes the problem of choice or selection.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Naturally he will first select the more important wants and try to satisfy them with the limited resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Thus, the selection or the choice of wants appears as a basic economic problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Another two important basic economic problems emerge out of the two main problems-scarcity of resources and the choice or the selection of wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">What is to be produced: It is not possible, with the limited resources, to produce all the necessary goods of the society at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">For this reason we have to decide how much of what goods is to be produced and the production of what goods are to be deferred.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">In this regard relative importance of wants, demand of the people etc are taken into consideration.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">B. How is to be produced: How will the selected goods be produced is a basic economic problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">A particular product can be produced using different methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">As for example, a particular product may be produced with either more of capital or less of labour or with less of capital more of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Now; under what method the goods will be produced depends on the supply of capital and labour, their relative prices and the state of technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">C. For whom it is to be produced: To increase production of goods is not the only problem in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Rather it is the problem to decide for whom it is to be produced or in other words, who and in what amount will consume the produced goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Produced goods should be distributed in the society in a way that maximizes the welfare of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">In every society the resources are scarce in relation to demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The scarce resources should be utilized in such a way as to maximize the welfare of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">In production, resources should be employed in such a way that they give maximum output at a minimum cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">This is called the proper utilization of resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Proper utilization of resources is necessary for solving the economic problems of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">In our country resources are scarce in relation to our needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Right decision is needed to ensure proper utilization of the scarce resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">For example, a given amount of money or resources should be spent in constructing a road in stead of a park.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Again, our natural gas should be used in the generation of electricity instead of its being used in burning the bricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Because, roads and electricity are more needed for economic development than the park or the building constructed with the bricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">In this way proper use of resources ensures maximum economic welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Even in the personal life, scarce resources should be used for meeting the necessaries of high priority in order to get the highest satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">In the capitalistic economic system there is no govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">embargo on or interference in the economic activities like production, distribution, consumption etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Individual producer or firm can independently decide what, how and how much to produce in their individual production sector.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">In the case of consumption, the consumer decides, according to his desire, choice and taste, what goods and how much of it he will consume.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">In that sector the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">sanction or control is absent.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">In the capitalistic society such economic activities may apparently lack in any discipline, but they actually run well automatically by the direction of an invisible force.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">This invisible force is the price-system.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Demand and supply are the keys to free economy.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The determination of price of a good by the interaction of the joint forces of demand and supply is known as the automatic price system.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">For example, if the demand for a good in a market is more in relation to its supply, then its price will rise.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Again, if supply of that good is more than its demand, then its price will fall.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">In this way, the price is determined at a point where demand and supply are equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Again, if for any reason, the equality between demand and supply is disturbed, that would lead to changes in the price.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">In capitalism producers produce for profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">So, the volume of production will depend on the price of the product.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Further, consumers consumption is determined by the price.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">When the price of a goods falls, the consumers increase their consumption and when the price increases, the consumption falls.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Thus the price system controls and guides the economic activities under capitalism.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Firstly, under capitalism production is guided by the consideration of profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">In case of high price of goods, the producers will try to produce more and thereby sell more of their goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">If the supply is higher than the demand, the price falls resulting in low profit and production is decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">But in the long run the price of lower priced goods may rise and the price of high priced goods may fall.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">In this way, amount of goods to be produced is determined by the prices.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Secondly, how goods will be produced is determined by the price system.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Factors of production (land, labour, capital etc) are bought with prices.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">So, when the price of labour is cheaper than that of capital, the producers will employ more labour than capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">This will lower cost of production and increase profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Thirdly, for whom goods will be produced or who will consume and how much will also depend on the price system.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Generally when the price increases, amount consumed decreases and when the price decreases, the amount consumed increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">When the consumption of a goods decreases, its production also decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Again, when the consumption increases, the production will then increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Thus, the price system determines the volume of production by its impact on consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">We are to accelerate economic development by the proper utilization of the limited resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">For this reason, the importance of the knowledge of economics is very vital to all concerned with the state management, trade and commerce, organization of production, development planning etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Economic planning is necessary for improving the standard of living of the people, the solution of economic problems and for economic development by the conscious utilization of the resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Because, nowhere, be it in the family, or in the society or the state, the proper utilization of resources and the achievement of the targets and objectives, is possible without planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">For this reason, in almost all the countries of the world economic planning is adopted as a tool for achieving for economic progress.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Different economists have defined economic planning in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">But, in simple words, it can be said that economic planning means the undertaking of a programme of activities to achieve definite social and economic objectives by the utilization of the available resources within a definite period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Let us assume that in Bangladesh within the next five years we will construct or renovate some industrial plants, schools, colleges, research centers, hospitals, electricity generation centers, some roads, bridges, railways and dams/embankments.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Programmes for agricultural development, population control, and provision for health services etc. will need to be undertaken.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Economic planning will mean formulation of total blueprint of prioritizing & listing the development activities, financial provision & fund allocation , implementation process etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">According to Prof. L. Robbins, To plan is to act with a purpose, to choose and choice is the essence of economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">In a developing country like Bangladesh there are various problems like low production, under-utilization of resources, population explosion, food deficiency, unemployment, under developed infrastructure etc. Economic planning is of immense importance in ensuring speedy economic development by addressing those problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">One of the main aims of the people of all countries of the world is to achieve maximum economic welfare by solving economic problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Under what method economic problems can be solved depend on the economic system of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The totality of economic laws and the environment which guide the overall economic activities of the country is known as economic system.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Different types of economic systems prevail in different countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Under capitalism the means of production are under private ownership.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">All economic activities including production, exchange and consumption are guided by the private initiative.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The producers and business men (firms) produce and exchange goods according to their desire for profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">In case of consumption every individual enjoys complete freedom.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">There is no govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">control over these sectors.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">So, these economic systems are called free economy.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Salient features of capitalism are described below:</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Individual ownership of property: In the capitalistic system land, factories and other properties are owned by the private individuals.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Individuals can freely own and transfer his properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Private initiative: All individuals in the society can earn properties by doing activities like production, establishing factories, running business etc according to their desire and convenience.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Automatic price system: Under capitalism all economic activities are guided by the automatic price system and so production and consumption depend on the price system.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Freedom of consumers: Every consumer can freely consume any goods according to his ability, desire and choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Producers produce goods according to the demand of the consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Free competition: Under capitalism free competition exists among the unlimited producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">This competition tends to keep the prices of goods low and makes new innovations possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Earning of Profit: To earn profit is the aim of all productive activities under capitalism.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">The scope of higher profit promotes higher investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">As a result, the volume of production of some goods may be large and that of others may be small.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">So, under capitalism or free economic system all activities of production, trade, commerce etc. are guided by the private initiative.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">These activities run on automatic price system with the aim of earning profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Under this system land, factories, mines and other resources are owned by the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">In absence of private ownership of properties, there is no private initiative in production, trade & commerce etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">In this system there is a central planning authority.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">The decisions on what is to be produced, how is to be produced and how will it be distributed, are taken by the central planning authority.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Under socialism there is no scope of earning personal profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Production, distribution and consumption are controlled on the consideration of total social demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Karl Marx and Angels are the main founders of socialism.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Even after the fall of socialism in Russia, socialism still exists in some countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The form of socialism is not the same in all countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">But, under socialism there are some common characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Public ownership of property: In the real socialistic countries there is public or social ownership of land, factories, mines and other resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The people of the country or the state are the owners of all properties or resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Income from these properties is spent for the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Absence of individual/private ownership: Initiative means to undertake steps for starting production or business.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">In socialism resources or the means of production are owned by the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">So, there is no individual initiative in the setting up of the industries, commerce etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">As a result, there is no scope for earning personal profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Industry, agriculture, trade and commerce etc, are guided or run by the state initiative.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Central planning: All economic activities in the pure socialistic country are managed by the central planning authority.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">What goods in what amount and by what method will be produced, are decided by the planning authority.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Limitations of the consumers freedom: In the socialistic country only under govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">initiative goods are produced and imported according to the society's needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Here the consumers do not have the freedom to buy and to consume any goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">So, it is said that in socialism consumers freedom is limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">In the socialistic economic system the resources and the means of production are under the ownership of the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">What goods, of what quantity and by what method will be produced are decided by the central planning of the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Productive activities, trade and commerce etc are run at the state initiative, but not by the individual initiative.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The economic system where the public and private ownership of resources and the public and private initiative are present is called mixed economic system or mixed economy.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Under this system, capitalism and socialism are adjusted.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Like capitalism, here the private ownership of property, earning of profit and individual initiative prevail.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">But, there is also govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">control over the economic activities at the private level.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Besides, some large scale and basic industries and important commercial venture are run in the public sector.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Co-existence of both the public and private sector: Under mixed economic system, as the private ownership of property and private initiative are recognized, so, side by side, some industries and commerce are run under public ownership.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">For example, in spite of the predominance of the public sector in Bangladesh, a large number of big industries and financial institutions are managed under private ownership.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">control: Some govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">controls are imposed, when necessary, on the production and business run under private ownership.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Particularly, the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">control is imposed on the monopoly business.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Price system: In a mixed economy, like capitalism, production and consumption are determined by the automatic price system.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Freedom of the consumers: In the mixed economic system goods are produced according to the demand of the consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">The consumers consume those goods according to their ability and choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">But, the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">sometimes controls the production and consumption of some particular goods for the greater interest of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Earning of profit: Under this system the objective of earning profit is present due to the presence of full freedom under private initiative.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">But, in consideration of the welfare of the people, the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">controls price and profit to some extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Therefore, under mixed economic system, both the public and the private initiatives are present in the sectors of industries, trade and commerce, banking, insurance etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">These activities are not completely free and in some areas there are some govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">But, the freedom to earn profit is allowed under this system.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Islam is a complete code of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">The solution to the total problems of human life lies in the Islamic way of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The economic system where the livelihood is earned and all economic activities are done according to the laws of Allah, is called Islamic Economic System.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Islamic Economics is not a study of a separate part of human life; rather it is linked to the totality of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">In the holy Quoran it is said, the ownership of the sky (universe) and the earth does exclusively belong to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">In view of this ownership of Allah, man will perform the activities in production, earning of livelihood and distribution of resources according to the dictates of Allah.1</sent>
				<sent id ="336">This is the essence of Islamic Economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Allah, as the Creator of the entire Universe and the mankind, has created all goods and material resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">So, under this system the earning of people's livelihood and economic activities will be done within the concept of the sole entity and sovereignty of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">In this system every man is given the position and the right to earn livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">So, there is no scope of any conflict, disparity and discrimination among the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">In this system opportunities are created for the use of natural power and material resources for the welfare of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Under this system emphasis is given on moral development side by side on the material development.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Strategy of coordination between the two is also indicated.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">According to the Islamic rules, Allah is the Owner of all kinds of basic resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">In using these resources human beings consider themselves as the custodian of the Creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">For this reason, economic prosperity does not create corruption and vanity in the character of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">In the Islamic economic system ordinarily no economic right or right to consume is recognized other than labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">In the holy Quoran, right to consume was given to men and women against their labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Rasul-e-karim ( Sm) attributed high position of respect to labour.Nabi karim (sm) said in this regard,None can eat more improved food than the food earned by doing work with own hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">This system does not approve misuse/wastage or luxury.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Islam does not approve the earning of livelihood and the accumulation of wealth by unfair means.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">But it provides with the system of giving financial assistance and help to the distressed, helpless and disabled people in exchange of no labour from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">This provision helps in the reduction of inequality in the distribution of income on the one hand and helps in fostering human values on the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Islamic economics has compulsorily provided for an obligation to pay Zakat and Usharat the rate of 2.5% on the accumulated wealth and savings so that resources and income do not concentrate in the hands of few people.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Money collected on this head is distributed among the distressed, poor and disabled people to satisfy their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">In Islamic economic system, interest- based transaction is strictly prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Under this system necessary fund for the large scale industries are available from the interest free banking system.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">So, in Islamic economic system production, consumption, distribution etc are guided by the prescriptions of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Under this system the production process is better for the society and it is devoid of exploitation as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The aim of production is to produce and consume halal consumer goods and services.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">For this reason, Islamic production system and its organization are different from the western capitalist production system.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The economic condition of all countries of the world is not the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">In some countries, industry, agriculture, trade and commerce etc are more developed and per- capita income and standard of living of the people are high.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Again, many other countries are backward economically.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Their per capita income and standard of living are low.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">So, on the basis of degree and stage of economic development the countries of the world are divided into three types, namely, (A) Under developed countries, (B) Developing countries and (C) Developed countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">The countries where no economic development took place and the per capita income & standard of living of the people are low, are called under developed countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">In such economies primary occupation is dominant, capital is low, unemployment is high and most of the basic wants of the people remains unsatisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">According to Collin Clark, majority of the people of underdeveloped countries earn their livelihood by doing activities in primary occupations.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Low per-capita income and low standard of living: In the underdeveloped countries due to low production in the field of agriculture, industry etc, the standard of living of the people is very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Most of the people are poor and deprived of the minimum basic requirements and facilities for subsistence.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Over dependence on agriculture: The economy of an underdeveloped country is predominantly dependent on agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">In these countries majority of the people depend on agriculture in view of its industries, trade, commerce and other occupations being under developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">But the agriculture is also under developed and its productivity per acre is much lower than that of the developed countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Underdevelopment of industries: Most of the under-developed countries had been under foreign rule for long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">So, very few industries were set up in these countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">As a result, these countries could not develop themselves industrially.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Low capital: In the under developed countries savings are low because of low income.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">For this reason, required investment for producing capital goods like machineries, equipments, raw-materials, factory buildings etc can not be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">The shortage of capital, therefore, hinders the setting up of industries in these countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Under-utilization of natural resources: Many under developed countries have natural resources like agriculture, forest, fisheries, minerals etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">But due to lack of adequate financial resources and technical knowledge, exploration and full utilization of these natural resources is not possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Massive unemployment: Rate of growth of population is high in most of the under developed countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">But due to lack of development of industries, trade, commerce and other occupations, the employment opportunities are very scarce.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">As a result, massive unemployment persists in these countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Lack of technical know-how/knowledge: In the under developed countries the technical know how and skills of labourers are low due to lack of education, training and research.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Underdeveloped transport and communication system: In the under developed countries due to shortage of fund desirable development of roads, railways, embankments, bridges, power and water supply, post, telegraph, tele- communication etc could not take place.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">For this reason, the transport and communication system as a whole is very backward as compared to developed countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Illiteracy: Widespread illiteracy is an important characteristics of an under developed country.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">In these countries about 70% to 80% of the people are illiterate.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">But at present, priority is given to education to achieve the objective of economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Excessive dependence on foreign assistance/aid: The under developed countries strongly desire to move along the path of development.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">But they have deficiency of resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">As such, these countries are highly dependent on foreign aid.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Uncongenial social environment: In the under developed countries lack of education, ill education, superstition, religious fanaticism, under development of science and technology etc. persist for long.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">As a result, the social environment of such countries is not congenial to economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">At present, the under developed countries are marching towards economic development under the pressure of its internal forces and with the cooperation of other countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Through different development programmes they have meanwhile achieved some success in the field of development.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">So, actually at present the number of under developed countries is few.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Countries like Ethiopia, Male, Mozambique etc can still be called underdeveloped countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">Countries where per capita income and the standard of living are increasing as a result of economic development through planned programmes, are called developing countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">In these countries the socio economic base for economic development has been built up and economies are marching along the path of development.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">In spite of their low per capita income and low standard of living as compared to developed countries, the potentialities for improvement have been created.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Increasing trend of per capita income: Although the per capita income of the developing countries is low, its growth shows increasing trend.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">For example, in Bangladesh the per capita income has increased by 50 dollars within the last five years.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Dynamism of development programmes: For the economic development of developing countries development programmes are being continuously undertaken.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">As a result, dynamism exists in the development activities of these countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Gradual development of agriculture and industry: Unlike the developed countries, the conditions of agriculture and industry of the developing countries are not so developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">But efforts are being made to solve the existing problems in those fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">As a result, the process of gradual development in those areas has been created.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Unemployment and economic disparity: Although the developing countries have stepped into the path of economic development, they face a lot of economic problems at this stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Agriculture, industry, trade and commerce do not progress at the desired rates.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">As a result, unemployment persists.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Economic disparity also appears due to the absence of fair distribution system.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Planned development efforts: The developing countries are committed to quick economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">For this reason development efforts are taken through concrete plans.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Socio economic problems: Various socio economic problems exist side by side with the continuation of development process in developing countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">For example, these problems are the under development of agriculture & industry, high rate of population growth, unemployment, underdeveloped socio-economic infrastructure, illiteracy etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">It takes long time to solve these problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Gradual development of social environment: In the developing countries production and income gradually increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Education and the degree of urbanization increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">As a result, social environment gradually improves, although at a slow rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Most of the countries of Asia, Africa, Latin America including India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh etc are included in the category of developing countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">The countries where substantial development has occurred and where the per capita income and the standard of living of the people are very high are called developed countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">As a result of the massive application of adequate capital and improved technical knowledge agricultural and industrial production has increased and the rate of unemployment has become negligible.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">The supply of goods of daily use and luxury is abundant.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">In these countries there exist a developed transport and communication system and abundant facilities of education, health, housing etc. Main characteristics of the developed countries are described below:</sent>
				<sent id ="428">High per-capita income and standard of living: In the developed countries the per capita income is very high and the standard of living is very improved.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">As for example, per capita income in Bangladesh is 750* dollar, in India it is 2960** dollar, and in Pakistan it is 2700** dollar.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">But in the United States and Germany it is more than 47000* dollar.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Massive development: Developed countries are highly industrialized.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">In these countries larger share of national income originates from industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Their major items of exports are industrial products or goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Abundance of capital: In the developed countries the production of capital goods is high.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">As a result of the abundance of capital, economic development accelerates.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Full utilization of resources: In the developed countries full utilization of resources is possible because of adequate capital and improved technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Developed Technical Knowledge: In the developed countries there is tremendous development of technical knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">As a result, increase in the efficiency of labour and production becomes possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Developed Transport and Communication System: In the developed countries the transports of roads, railways, waterways, airways and the means of communication are highly improved.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">This condition provides increasing facilities to improve the standard of living and also to speed up development activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">High Rate of Education: In the developed countries the rate of literacy is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">The rates of education in the countries of England, America, and Germany etc are within the range of about 98% to 100%.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Skilled Manpower: In view of the adequate facilities for education, training, research etc. most of their manpower is highly skilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">As a result, industrial development accelerates.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Low pressure of population: In almost all the developed countries the rate of growth of population is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">In these countries the development programmes do not face the problem of population pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Developed Social Environment: In the developed countries the society becomes free of religious fanaticism, superstitions and conservatism due to massive industrialization, high rate of literacy and urbanization, high standard of living etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">It means that social environment is conducive to development.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">The countries of the United States, England, Canada, Germany, Japan, Australia, France, Belgium etc. belong to the category of developed countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">The average annual per capita income of these countries fall within the range of almost 35 thousand to 55 thousand dollars.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Whereas, the per capita income of India, Pakistan and Bangladesh is within* 750 to 2,960 dollars only.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Is Bangladesh an Underdeveloped or Developing Country?</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Bangladesh is an agricultural country of South East Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">Here economic problems like low per capita income, low standard of living, underdevelopment of agriculture and industry, excessive growth of population, massive unemployment, food deficiency & malnutrition, scarcity of capital, under developed transport and communication etc. exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Besides, in this country the rate of education is low and facilities for health, housing and other basic facilities are scarce.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">There exists in the country political unrest and social chaos.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">In the light of these factors Bangladesh can be called an under developed country.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Bangladesh has started undertaking planned development programmes for the last three decades and by this time, the development base has been created.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">In spite of problems and failure even, development has received dynamism.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Per capita income is increasing, though at a very slow rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">The standard of living of the people is gradually increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Social environment is improving as result of gradual increase in the rate of literacy.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">If our natural and human resources are properly utilized, the economic development of our country in the near future will be accelerated.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">So, from this standpoint Bangladesh can be called a developing country.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">But, unlike other developing countries like Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Egypt etc. the per capita income and the growth rate are very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">Poverty is the main hindrance to the economic development of the under developed and many developing countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">In these countries the development efforts are disturbed by various economic problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Professor Ragner Nurkse said, The vicious circle of poverty is the constellation of such forces which, by acting and reacting on themselves, keeps a country poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">According to Nurkse, A country is poor because it is poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">The concept of the vicious circle of poverty can be explained from both the demand and supply sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Demand for capital: The income of the people is low if the production is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">As the income is low, the purchasing power of the people is low and for that reason the demand for goods in the market is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">Low demand for goods leads to low investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">If investment is low, then demand for capital and its use becomes low.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">This is again the cause for low production.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">The supply of capital: Low income is the result of low production.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">People's savings is low because of low income.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">Low savings leads to low investment and due to low investment the supply of capital becomes low.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">Lack of capital again leads to low production and low income.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">This is shown in the diagram below: The diagram shows that the vicious circle of poverty, by revolving within its own orbit, tends to keep a poor country poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">The vicious circle of poverty persists in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">Here, the vicious circle based on low capital and low production prevails.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">The low demand for goods and the low investment are the result of low production and low income.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">This condition again leads to the shortage of capital and low production.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">To get Bangladesh out of the vicious circle and to transform it into a prosperous country, investment must be made in the production of vast capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">For this reason, higher savings is necessary for bigger investment which will help in increasing production and income.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">This will in turn boost savings, investment, production and income.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">So, to increase savings, necessary steps need to be taken at the private individual and govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">In developing countries there exist some main economic problems which hinder the economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">Such problems are called basic economic problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">As a developing country Bangladesh has some economic problems that hinder its economic progress.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">Underdevelopment of agriculture: Bangladesh is an agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">About 75% of the people of this country depend on agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">But due to age-old method of cultivation lack of irrigation, fertilizer, seed, agricultural credit etc. and natural calamity etc. our agricultural production is very low as compared to a developed country.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">But, since the last few years production has increased as a result of the limited application of high yielding technology in agriculture (Upshi).</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Underdevelopment of industries: In spite of the availability of necessary raw materials and surplus manpower, the rate of industrial development of this country is very slow due to lack of capital, improved technical knowledge, skilled manpower, developed infrastructure and proper planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">In the fiscal year 2007- 2008 the share of industry in national income was*29.66%.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">The rate of our economic development is not satisfactory because of the underdevelopment of our agriculture and industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">But during the recent times, the ready made garment industry has an important contribution to our industry sector.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Low per-capita income: Due to low production in agriculture and industry, the per capita income in this country is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">For example, the per capita income of the United States is 46,970 dollar, of Japan 35,220 dollar, of Germany 35,940 dollar, of China 6,020 whereas the present per capita income of Bangladesh is only * 750 dollar.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">Our per capita income is increasing, but slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">Low standard of living: Due to low income, 50% of the people of Bangladesh live below poverty line.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">They fail to procure even the minimum means of subsistence.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">At present more than half of * 14.66 crore of people suffer from the wants of food and malnutrition, which make them suffer from diseases leading to the depletion of their working capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">Shortage of capital: In Bangladesh savings is low due to low income.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">As a result, rate of capital formation is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">For want of sufficient capital our investment in agriculture and industry is low and so the production is also low.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Low production is the main cause of our poverty.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">High growth of population: The rate of population growth was 2.03%.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">At present this has been reduced to * 1.39%.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">Such growth rate of population is high among many countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">The vast population of this country is itself creating many problems including food shortage and unemployment.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">So, Population problem has been identified as number one problem in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">Unemployment problem: Due to high rate of population growth and the lack of employment opportunities, unemployment problem has become acute in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">Of the total active manpower in the country, about * 2.2 million are unemployed.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">Besides, disguised unemployment exists in agriculture of Bangladesh due to the employment of more people than what is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">As a result, per capita agricultural productivity is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">Food deficiency: In spite of being an agricultural country Bangladesh has been suffering from food deficiency for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">Underdeveloped method of cultivation, lack of improved seeds, fertilizers and insecticides, lack of sufficient irrigation facilities, incidence of natural calamities, fast growth of population etc. are the causes for the low productivity in our agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">As a result, our food production is low in relation to our needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">Lack of Education: Education is the main determinant of economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">At present, the rate of literacy in Bangladesh is **54.8%.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">Because of the widespread illiteracy the social environment is not congenial to economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">In Bangladesh skilled manpower and entrepreneur class did not grow up due to lack of education and training.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">As a result, our industrial productivity and the quality of our industrial products are low.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">Deficit in foreign trade: In view of the low production in agriculture and industry in Bangladesh, the volume of export is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">But, to meet the multiple demands of the increasing population and also to meet the needs of development, imports far exceed the exports.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">As a result, in the foreign trade sector of this country import expenditure exceeds export earnings every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">Excessive dependence on foreign assistance: Due to low per capita income of the people of Bangladesh their savings are very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">As a result, the necessary fund for her economic development can not be mobilized internally.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">For this reason we have to depend on foreign assistance heavily.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">Any reduction in the quantum of foreign assistance or any delay in the flow of its disbursement, affects our development activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">Underdeveloped social and economic infrastructure: The economic infrastructure of Bangladesh, such as roads, railways, waterways, irrigation system, river and sea ports, electricity and water supply, tele-communication system etc. are not developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">Social infrastructure such as education, training, research, public health, cultural awareness, values etc. are also not developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">The under developed infrastructure acts as constraint to the economic and social development of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Inequitable distribution of resources: The lion's share of the resources of Bangladesh is concentrated in the hands of a few people.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">For this reason, the standard of living of the majority of people is very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">As a result, unrest and resentment prevail in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">Lack of proper planning: Proper and realistic plans are not prepared for the economic development of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">Plans can not be fully implemented also.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">As a result, desired progress is not achieved in agriculture, industry, education, health etc. Undeveloped social environment: The influence of social environment on economic development cannot be ignored.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">In Bangladesh due to lack of education, ill education, superstition, religious fanaticism, reckless delivery of religious judgments etc. social environment is not improved.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">For this condition, economic development and public services are affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">Political instability: Political stability, social peace and discipline are the pre- requisites for development.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">But the political unrest, movement and lack of peaceful condition affect production in the factories and thereby the normal economic and development activities of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">For the economic development of Bangladesh the economic problems must, of necessity, be solved.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">For this reason the following measures need to be taken: Agricultural development: Bangladesh is an agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">So agricultural development serves as the main factor of our economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">Agricultural development will increase the income and the standard of living of most of the people of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">Increased food production will bridge the food deficit also.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">Agricultural development will have to be ensured by modern method of farming, use of improved seed and fertilizer, expansion of irrigation facilities, adequate credit supply, flood control, cooperative farming etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">Fast industrialization: Without industrial development no country in the world at present can achieve economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">To increase national income and employment in our country there must be industrial development side by side with agricultural development.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">Such programme will lead to the proper utilization of our labour force, raw materials and natural resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">Increase of capital: If investment is increased in the sectors of agriculture, industry, trade and commerce, production and income will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">To increase investment and thereby to increase capital the people's savings must be increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">Above all, good social environment will have to be maintained for increasing savings and its profitable investment,.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">Full utilization of natural resources: Bangladesh has fertile agricultural land, water resources, natural gas and other mineral resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">There is further the clear possibility of the discovery of a few mineral resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">These natural resources, if properly utilized, can help to increase production, income and employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">Population control: Economic development will be impossible if the high rate of population growth is not checked.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">So the high rate of population growth will have to be controlled by means of family planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">As a result unemployment will decline and per capita income will rise.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">In recent times the people's interest in population control has increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">Expansion of education: Education is an important power to solve economic problems and promote economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">The illiteracy of our people will have to be eradicated through the spread of education.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">This will then increase the efficiency of labour and create pro-development attitude of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">In recent times, there is significant increase in public expenditure on education.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Development of technical knowledge: The technical knowledge of the labourers must be developed for increasing the production in the factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">It is, therefore, necessary to establish a large number of technical schools, colleges and training centres in the country to produce and train technically skilled manpower.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">Solution of the problem of unemployment: Unemployment must be wiped-out in order to increase the per capita income and the standard of living of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">For this reason labour intensive small industries and occupations need to be set up.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">Development of economic infrastructure: Developed economic infrastructure is indispensable to the development of agriculture, industry and trade and commerce.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">In our country the basic infrastructures like roads, railways and waterways, tele communication, irrigation, electricity supply, ports, embankments etc must be developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">Proper utilization of foreign assistance: Every year Bangladesh receives huge amount of foreign aid and grants from the World Bank, other agencies and countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">The proper utilization of this assistance will accelerate our development.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">Proper planning: Proper planning is necessary for solving economic problems and for attaining quick economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">In addition, for the development of our rural economy, rural development plans need to be formulated and implemented.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">Poverty Alleviation Programmes: The unlimited number of absolute poor men and women of Bangladesh need to be given credit and supports through different governmental and non-govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">organizations in order to make provision for their self-employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">With these supports they can arrange for their self employment in poultry farm, livestock, fisheries, gardening of fruits and flowers, handicrafts, small grocery shops etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">Equitable distribution of national income: At present resources are concentrated in the hands of a few people in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">As a result, the number of poor people and their poverty are increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">This is not conducive to the social and economic welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">Equitable distribution of income and wealth must be ensured by means of suitable development policy.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">Improvement of social environment: Social environment must be improved by spreading education and culture, social movement and the enactment of proper laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">The path of the process of development will be smooth if superstitions, religious fanaticism, uncongenial social rules and customs are overcome.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">Proper administrative system: Our administrative system must be suitable and efficient for solving economic problems and development.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">It is necessary to enhance understanding and cooperation among different departments of administration.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">In a word, to pursue continuous economic development is the best means to solve the economic problems of our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">With this objective, planned development programmes should be formulated and implemented.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
