<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-eco-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.82</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">453</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">6896</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1695</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t52">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Bangladesh is an agro-based country.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">But her agriculture is underdeveloped and productivity is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Unemployment is alarming owing to its fast growing population.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Per capita income and standard of living both are low.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Economic development and solution of basic economic problems cannot be solved depending on agriculture alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">For overall development of the country, development of industry is also necessary along with the development of agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Actually, developed countries of the world have made progress through the development of industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Rapid economic development: For rapid development it is necessary to set up more industrial plants and increase production.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The overall economic development is not possible through agriculture alone;</sent>
				<sent id ="10">because production in agriculture is slow and production cannot be increased for various limitations.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Production in industry can be increased fast and up to the desired level.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">So many countries have made quick economic progress by increasing production through fast industrialization.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">This is why the precondition of economic development of Bangladesh is rapid industrial development.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">To increase national income: The role of both agricultural and industrial sector in increasing national income is important.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">So national income of any country cannot be increased depending only on agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">This is more applicable to Bangladesh as agriculture here is backward.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">To increase our national and per capita income, we need to increase production through industrial development.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Solving unemployment problem: As a result of high growth rate of population, unemployment problem in Bangladesh is gradually rising.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Excess pressure on agriculture has created disguised unemployment.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The scope for providing employment in agriculture for the surplus manpower is limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Inthese circumstances, it is possible to provide employment for the surplus manpower by developing the industrial sector.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Development of agriculture: For the development and modernization of agriculture in Bangladesh, agricultural implements, chemical fertilizers, pesticides etc are necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">To produce these implements, industrial development is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">If these implements are manufactured in the country, their supply will increase and price will come down.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">As result it will be possible for the farmers to increase agricultural production by using these improved implements.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">So industrial development is necessary for agricultural development.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Besides this, we need to set up processing industries to process various agricultural products.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Lessening pressure of population on agriculture: In consequence of increasing population, fragmentation of land is also increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">As a result, cultivable lands are becoming more and more fragmented and scattered.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">This is making the introduction of modern mechanized cultivation impossible.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Moreover, disguised unemployment in agriculture is on the rise.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">In these circumstances, it is necessary to shift the surplus manpower to other sectors.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">It is possible to create more jobs and lessen the pressure of population on land only by setting up more industrial plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The development of industry will pave the way to adopt modern methods of cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Proper use of natural resources: Bangladesh has various natural resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">They need to be utilized through the setting up of industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It will enhance industrial production as well as per capita income.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">This in turn will raise the standard of living.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Certainty of production: Agricultural production often becomes uncertain due to natural calamities like flood, cyclone, drought, tidal surge etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">But there is no such uncertainty in industrial production.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">So to maintain stability in our economy industrial development in the country is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Earning more foreign exchange: We need lots of foreign money for economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Quick industrialization will increase export making it possible to earn more foreign exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">In the recent time, development in the garment industry has increased our foreign exchange earning to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Diminishing dependence: Bangladesh imports a variety of consumer goods, machinery, motor vehicles, raw materials etc in large volumes.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The import cost of these items is higher than the export earnings.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">It is possible to lessen import by increasing production through industrial development in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Dependency will then come down and there will be a balance between income and expenditure.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The developed countries of the world are less dependent.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Development of transport and communication: To expand trade and commerce in the country, the development of transport and communication system is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">To facilitate that, transport vehicles and communication equipments need to be locally manufactured.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Industries should be developed for that purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Besides, the development of iron, steel and cement industries is essential for the construction of improved roads and highways, bridges, ports etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Strong defence system: It is necessary to build up strong defence system in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Sufficient quantity of arms, ammunition, transport etc is needed for that.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">For manufacturing those locally as far as possible, industrial units should be set up in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Urbanization and social development: It is possible to raise the standard of living through fast urbanization and increasing social facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">In Bangladesh, offering more social facilities and increasing the rate of urbanization are possible through industrial growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Moreover, industrial development is also necessary to increase the supply of the consumer goods for the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The importance of industries, therefore, in the economy of Bangladesh is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Industrial development is essential for the fast economic growth of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The economy of Bangladesh is agro-based.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">75% people depend on agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">21% of national income comes from agriculture and 63% manpower is engaged in agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">But the agriculture of Bangladesh is backward, dependent on nature and low-productive though it is the largest sector of our economy.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Side by side pressure of population on the limited cultivable land is gradually rising due to population boom.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">As a result, agricultural land is becoming fragmented and scattered.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Per capita production is falling and disguised unemployment is rising.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">So it can be concluded that economic progress is not possible through the development of agriculture alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">For this, industrial sector needs to be developed along with agricultural sector.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Industrial development will ensure the prosperity of Bangladesh by increasing national income, decreasing unemployment and helping overall improvement of the standard of living.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In fact, like in all other countries, both agriculture and industry of Bangladesh are interdependent for their development.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Agriculture provides raw materials for industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">In Bangladesh, raw materials for jute, tea, sugar, paper, leather industries come from agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">It is, therefore easy to set up those industries depending on agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Bangladesh imports raw materials and machinery for industrial production.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">This needs a lot of foreign exchange which can be earned through the export of her agricultural commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">With the development of agricultural sector, farmers income and purchasing power will also rise.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">This will increase their demand for industrial products.As a result of this, the market of industrial products will expand and industrial production boost up.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Though Bangladesh is an agricultural country, it suffers from huge food deficit every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">As a lot of foreign exchange is spent to import food grains to meet the annual deficit, the import of necessary implements for industry suffers.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">This hampers the development of industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">So if we can attain self-sufficiency in food production, we shall not need to import food grains.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The valuable foreign exchange thus saved could be invested for the development of industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Wide scale development in our agriculture will increase the income of our people.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">This will increase savings for capital formation and make more investment in industrial sector possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">This in turn, will remove our want of capital in industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The price of raw materials for industry will come down if production in agriculture rises.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">It will enable the agro-based industries to buy their raw materials at low price.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">As a result both production and profit in industrial sector will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">This profit will encourage new industrial entrepreneurs to set up more industries in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">For the development and modernization of agriculture of Bangladesh, the supply of different kinds of agricultural implements, fertilizer, pesticides etc is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">If industries producing these necessary implements grow in the country, they will be available in plenty and at a low price.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">As a result development of agriculture will speed up.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">We have to import some machinery and other implements for cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Development of industries in the country will enhance the export of industrial products.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">It will then be possible to earn more foreign exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">We can spend that foreign exchange to import necessary implements for the development of agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The development and spread of agro-based industries in the country will increase the demand for agricultural raw materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">To meet that demand agricultural production will also increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">This will in turn, raise the income and the standard of living of the farmers.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">In our agriculture, there is more manpower than necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">This is making our land more fragmented and smaller in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">With it, disguised unemployment is growing more acute.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">To solve this problem, the surplus manpower engaged in agriculture should be transferred elsewhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">That can only be done through development of industry where employment opportunities can be created for the surplus manpower.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Only then will the pressure on our agricultural land will decrease.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">With the expansion of industries in the country, it will be possible to preserve the agricultural products by processing.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">This will prevent wastage of agricultural commodities side by side help the farmers to get fair price of their product.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">From the above discussion we find that agriculture and industry in Bangladesh are interdependent and complementary to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">For economic development, therefore, simultaneous development of both the sectors is desirable.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Bangladesh is mainly an agricultural country; still industry has great importance here.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">But our industry is not developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Contribution of industry to national income: Bangladesh is backward in industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Industrial sector has not flourished here because of neglect for a long period.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">This is why the share of industry in our national income is only about 29.66%.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Industrial structure: In Bangladesh three kinds of industry viz. large, medium and cottage industries exist side by side.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Agro-based industry: Most industries of Bangladesh are agro-based.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">For example jute, tea, textile, sugar, paper and many other small and cottage industries have grown up basing on agricultural products.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Substandard technology: Compared to the developed countries, substandard technology is more used in our industrial plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">This is why both our industrial production and the quality of products are low.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Want of heavy and basic industry: In Bangladesh heavy and basic industry is almost absent.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Jute, textile, sugar, paper etc all industries produce consumer goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Place of cottage industry: A great number of people - especially women and children - are engaged in cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Cottage industries of Bangladesh had a good reputation in the past.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">But at present their existence is at a stake.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Ownership of industry: In the industrial sector, both private and public ownership exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Some of the heavy industries like jute, textile and a few others are there both in the private and public sector;</sent>
				<sent id ="129">while almost all small and cottage industries are now running under private ownership.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Lack of export oriented industries: There is dearth of export oriented industries in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Apart from jute and ready made garments industries, all other industries produce goods mainly for local consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Export Processing Zone (EPZ): With a view to enhancing export as well as inviting foreign investment, several EPZs have been set up in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Industrial units set up here have been given the facilities for conducting free trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This is a noteworthy characteristic of the industrial sector of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Bangladesh is backward in industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">In spite of having adequate manpower and raw materials, industry has not flourished here.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Negligence of the British and Pakistani rulers: Due to the negligence of the British rulers for about 200 years, no significant industry could grow up here.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">They used this as the suppliers of their raw materials and market for their industrial products.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">During the 24 years of Pakistani rule also, industry could not grow up to the desired level as a result of discriminatory administrative policy.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Post-liberation situation in industrial sector: After independence almost 92% of the existing industries were nationalized following socialist ideals and an embargo was imposed on the setting up of industrial projects worth more than Tk:25 lac on private entrepreneurship.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Although gradual privatization programme was taken up, different kinds of obstructive rules and regulations and hazards in obtaining clearance created impediments to the development of industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Inadequacy of capital: Capital is necessary for setting up industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Bangladesh is a poor country; so both income and savings are low.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">As a result the rate of capital formation is also low.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Due to the scarcity of capital, local entrepreneurs cannot set up industries easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Want of mineral and energy resources: Bangladesh has no coal, fuel oil, iron etc for which industrial development is hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Besides, there is scarcity of power energy for industrial plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">In spite of our adequate natural gas, its use as a raw material for industry has not yet started.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Lack of technical know-how: For modern industries, industrial workers with improved technical knowledge are very necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">But Bangladeshi workers are not so.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This is why quick development of industry has not been possible in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Lack of education and training: To run industrial plants smoothly, skilled workers are very necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Though Bangladesh has adequate manpower, her workers are less skilled due to the lack of proper education and training.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Industrial development suffers for want of skilled workers.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Lack of entrepreneurship: Efficient entrepreneurs are necessary for the development of industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">But efficient entrepreneurs could not be created during the long period of British and Pakistani rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Still industrial sector suffers from the scarcity of efficient entrepreneurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">For this reason our industries cannot make the desired progress.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Problem of industrial credit: Credit is necessary for setting up new industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">But in Bangladesh, credit is not easily available for investment in industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Foreign loan is not adequate either.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">That is why industrial development is hampered for want of credit.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Lack of foreign exchange: We have to import machinery, mechanical tools, raw materials etc from abroad for industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Owing to the scarcity of foreign exchange we cannot import those materials as much as necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">As a result it becomes difficult to set up of industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Backwardness of transport and communication system: Improved transport and communication system is essential for fast industrial development.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Roads and highways, transport vehicles, and communication system is not developed here.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">This is why transportation of raw materials and products as well as workers movement are hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Dearth of efficient executives: To run the industries smoothly, efficient and experienced executives are essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">There is scarcity of such skilled people in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">This is why nationalized industries suffer from various maladies in the post liberation period and many other industries suffer losses.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Lack of proper implementation of industrial policy: To run industrial enterprises well, proper industrial policy planning is very necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Although different industrial policies were formulated in the post liberation period, they could not be implemented properly owing to various impediments.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">As a result, the progress of industry in Bangladesh has been slow.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Political instability: For quick industrial development, it is essential to maintain political stability, peace and discipline in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Political instability and labour unrest often result into strike, gherao etc which paralyse the normal growth of industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Lack of other facilities: There is considerable lack of attendant facilities for the growth of industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">For example necessary land for industrial area, water and power supply, facilities for importing raw materials and equipments etc are lacking.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">There is lack of direct government assistance and cooperation also.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">These are the causes which discourage industrial entrepreneurship.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">As a result, Bangladesh is still backward in industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The importance of industrial development in the economic development of Bangladesh is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Following steps can be taken to gear up industrial development:</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Encouraging private entrepreneurship: From the experience of Bangladesh and other countries of East Asia it has been observed that private sector is more efficient and dynamic.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">When state-owned industrial units are incurring huge losses, garment industry in the private sector has been able to make room for itself in the international market on the basis of competition.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">We have, therefore, to encourage private enterprises in every way for our industrial development.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Public enterprises and patronization: Public enterprises and patronization are necessary for industrial development.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">There are some large scale industries which are difficult for the private entrepreneurs to build up.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Those have to be built up under public ownership.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">For all other industries, private enterprises should be encouraged and patronized by the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">At present, a policy to allow both private local and foreign entrepreneurs to set up industries in the country has been adopted.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It will help faster industrial development in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Increasing the supply of industrial capital: Setting up of industries is hardly possible in Bangladesh for paucity of capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">So we have to increase savings and capital formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Industrial capital has to be arranged on easy terms from industrial banks and other financial institutions as well as from abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Capital should be invested on priority basis in those industries which can go into swift production.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Development of mineral and energy resources: The direction and speed of industrial development significantly depend upon adequate supply of various mineral resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">So, for hastening industrial development in future, we have to keep on unhindered the development of those mineral and energy resources viz, fuel, oil, coal, limestone, gas etc from now on.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Development of transport and communication system: Advanced transport and communication system hasten industrial development.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">So we have to develop and expand our roads and highways, railways, waterways, airways and also other means of communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">This will make the transportation of industrial raw materials, products and workers easier.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">As a result mills and factories will grow up in different parts of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Technical know-how and skilled workers: We have to make skilled workers with technical know-how in the country for our industries through technical education and training.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">This will increase production and diminish cost which in turn will make the products richer in quality and standard.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Development of agriculture: For the development of industries in Bangladesh we have to develop our agriculture; and this will make the raw materials for industries easily available.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">It will raise the farmers income also.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Besides, the rise in their income will increase their purchasing power which will widen the market of industrial products.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Creating markets for industrial products: The market for industrial products should be wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Moreover serious efforts should be made to create markets abroad for Bangladeshi industrial products.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">With the widening of market facilities for industrial products, new industries will grow up.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Political stability: Industrial development speeds up if there is peace and political stability in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">So to keep industrial production and development going unhampered, we have to maintain peace, discipline and political stability in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Together with it, labour unrest should also be done away with.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Formulation of proper taxation policy: The existing taxation policy of the country greatly influences industrial development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">To encourage private enterprises for industrial development in the country, we need to formulate proper taxation system.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Besides, it is also necessary to see that the taxation system plays appropriate role in creating investable fund.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Setting up local raw material based industry: We should first set up such industries as can use local raw materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">For example, industries like mute, tea, sugar, leather, paper, fertilizer etc use local raw materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">These industries therefore should be given priority.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Setting up export oriented industries: Industries producing commodities having good demand in the foreign market should be set up.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">This will expand the industrial sector in the country on the one hand and increase export earnings on the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">From this point of view, industries producing ready-made garments, hosiery goods, fertilizer, electrical goods, leather etc have good potentials in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">More importance on setting up small industries: Compared to big industries, small industries require small capital but employ more workers.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">So in a country of small capital and surplus workers like ours, more small industries should be set up.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">This will help to solve unemployment problem on the one hand and the development of industry will not suffer for want of capital on the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Earning more foreign exchange: We need a lot of foreign exchange to set up an industrial project.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">It is possible to earn that foreign exchange by increasing the volume of our export.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">In turn, it will enable us to import industrial raw materials and machinery etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Setting up heavy industries: For quick industrial development we need heavy industries to produce machinery, machine tools, chemical items etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">We have, therefore, to set up different kinds of heavy industries for fast industrial development in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Industrial research: For enhancing the process of industrial development, we have to encourage industrial research in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Research on agro-based and export oriented industries, minimizing loss in industrial plants, improving the quality of industrial products etc will hasten the development of industries in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Proper implementation of industrial policies: It is necessary to create favourable atmosphere and take necessary steps to implement industrial policies properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">To conclude, we can say that Bangladesh has necessary resources as well as environment for industrial development.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">But we need proper planning and an effective industrial policy for that.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">There are three types of industries in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Large scale industries: The industrial projects with large investment, using large volume of raw materials and employing large number of workers to produce large volume of merchandise are called large scale industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Large scale industries need modern technology and large capital for production.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The mentionable large scale industries of Bangladesh are jute, textile, sugar, paper, fertilizer, cement, iron and steel industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Small scale industries: Compared to the large scale ones, industries with small capital, using small volume of raw materials and employing large number of workers against small capital are called small scale industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The volume of production is also comparatively low.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Plastic and nylon, soap, cosmetics, leather, glass, safety match, porcelain, aluminium industries can be classed as small scale industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">These industries meet the greater portion of our people's demand for consumer goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Cottage industries: In Bangladesh, the industries run by a small group of workers with a small capital, easily available raw materials in a merely family environment are called cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">In most cases the family supplies the raw materials and labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Most of these industries do not use power as energy and the method of production is age-worn.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Once upon a time the cottage industries of Bangladesh were especially renowned all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The noteworthy cottage industries here are handloom, earthenware, bamboo and cane, bidi, brass and bronze, conch-shell and oyster etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">A brief description of the main large scale industries of Bangladesh is given below: Jute industry: Jute is the once-largest and most important industry in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">About 10.34 lac acre of land produced jute with a total production of about 48.84 lac m. ton annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">It is about 75% of the total world production of jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">About 2.00 lacs workers are engaged in this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Though the largest jute producing country, Banhgladesh formerly East Pakistan had no jute mill when India was divided in All the 108 jute mills set up during the British rule, fell in India's share.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The first jute mill of the country Adamjee Jute Mills was set up in Narayanganj in At present there are 78 jute mills in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Among them Adamjee Jute Mills has been liquidated in 2003 for persistent loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">85% of the total production of jute goods is exported to foreign countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Notable jute products are hesian, hesian sac, carpet, tarpaulin, prayer-mat etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Bangladesh earned foreign exchange worth Tk:992 crore during 1993-94 by exporting 4.50 lac ton jute products.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Textile industry: Textile is the second main industry of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">At the time of partition of India in 1947, there were only 9 textile mills in the then East Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The number stood at 44 at the time of independence.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">At present the number of textile and spinning mills is Bangladesh is not self-sufficient in the production of textile and yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Our present annual demand for textile is 140 crore metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">But our present total production is only 12 crore metres of cloth and 14 crore pounds of yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">So to meet the increasing demand, we have to import a huge quantity of cloth and yarn every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The textile and spinning mills situated mainly in Narayanganj, Dhaka, Khulna and Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">The main problem of our textile mills is the scarcity of raw cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">To attain self-sufficiency in textiles, we have to increase the production of raw cotton side by side set up more textile and spinning mills in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">In 2008-2009 Bangladesh produced 176.38 thousand metric tons sppining and 50.57</sent>
				<sent id ="270">thousand metric tons cloths.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Sugar industry: In 1947, there were only 5 sugar mills in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">At present the number of sugar mills is All those are state-owned.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">These sugar mills are situated at Darsana and Jagati in Kushtia, Rangpur, Panchagarh, Thakurgaon, Setabganj, Joypurhat, Rajshahi, Natore, and Faridpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">It is an agro-based industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">At present the total annual local demand of sugar is 3.00 lac m. tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">But the total annual production capacity of our sugar mils is more than 1 lac m. tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">So Bangladesh is not self-sufficient in sugar production.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">We have opportunity to increase production and even export sugar by thorough overhauling, renovation and modernization of the old ones side by side setting up new ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The total production of sugar in 2005-06 was 1.33 lac m. tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The production of Suggar in 2008-2009 was 79.92 thousand metric tions.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Paper industry: In 1947, there was no paper mill in the then East Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Karnafuli the first paper mill of the country was set up at Cnandroghona in Chittagong in In 1969, North Bengal Paper Mills was set up at Paksey in Pabna.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Besides these, there are a newsprint mill in Khulna and hardboard mills in Khulna, Dhaka and Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">A pulp mill has been set up at Chhatak in Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Mostly bamboo, soft wood, sugarcane waste etc are the main raw materials of paper mills.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">At present all the paper mills are state-owned.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Bangladesh is self-sufficient in paper production.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">A small quantity of paper and newsprint is also exported abroad after meeting local demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">In 1993-94, Bangladesh produced 44,000 m. tons of paper and 6,000 m. tons of newsprint.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">In 2008-2009 Bangladesh produced 24.20 thousand meitric tons paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Fertilizer industry: In an agricultural country like Bangladesh, chemical fertilizer is very necessary for increasing agricultural production.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">At present there are 8 fertilizer factories in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">They are at Fenchuganj, Ghorasl, Ashuganj Fertilizer Factory, Chittagong and Khulna TSP Fertilizer Factory, Sylhet Ammonia Sulphate Factory, Chittagong Urea Factory and Jamalpur Jamuna Fertilizer Factory.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">All these fertilizer factories are state-owned.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Bangladesh is self-sufficient in fertilizer production.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">In 1993-94, the production of fertilizers was: urea 21.39 lac m. tons, TSP 59,000 m. tons, ammonia sulphate 7,000 m. tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">In 2008-2009 Bangladesh produced 1347.36 thousand metric tons fertilizer .</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Cement industry: At the time of independence, there was only one cement factory at Chhatak in Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Later, cement factories were set up in Chittagong and Joypurhat under government ownership.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">At present a number of cement industries has been set up by private entrepreneurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">The total annual demand of cement in the country is more than 10.00 lac m. tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Now Bangladesh is self-sufficient in cement production.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">But our total produced in a year is about 3 lac metric tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">In 1992-93, 2.07 lac metric tons cement was produced in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">In 2008-2009 Bangladesh produced 2852.58 thousand metric tons cement.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Iron and steel industry: The only iron and steel industry was set up in Chittagong in Its annual production capacity is only 2.5 lac m. tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">It produces iron bar and rod, steel sheet, corrugated iron sheet and other iron and steel articles.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">The raw materials are imported from abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">The production of iron and steel goods is far too less than the demand of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Heavy engineering industry: Bangladesh is not at all developed in heavy engineering industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">There is a machine tools factory at Joydebpur in Gajipur district.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Irrigation pumps and machine and also some other tools are manufactured here.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">A diesel plant at Tongi near to Dhaka and the only ordnance factory of the country have been set up in Gajipur.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Besides this, an electric wire and cable manufacturing factory and another electric equipment factory have been set up in Patenga, Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">In private sector, a number of electric wire and cable factory have also been set up in the country; such as BRB Cables, Sunshine Cables etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Bangladesh is now self- sufficient in cable and wire production.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Ship-building industry: In 1957, a shipyard was built in Khulna.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Besides repairing ships, burges, launches, tugs etc it also makes marine vessels and necessary machines for sugar mills.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Inland water vessels and launches are built and repaired at Narayanganj dockyard.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The dry-dock in Chittagong conducts repair work of sea- going vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Garment industry: At present garment industry is a fast growing export-oriented industry in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Starting in 1976 with an export of goods worth taka one lac only this industry has made tremendous progress during the last 31 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">At present there are about 4600 garment factories in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The main buyers of these ready- made garments are the USA, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and other European countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">The export earning of this sector is the highest, contributing almost 75% of the total foreign exchange earnings.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">This is also the largest sector where about 24 lac workers are employed of which 85% are women.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Almost all the clothes used in this industry come from foreign countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">In 2006-07 our export earnings from ready made garments was 633430 million Taka.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">In 2009-2010 our export earning from ready made garments was 4329 million us dollar is the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Plastic and nylon industries: Many kinds of small items of daily necessities are manufactured in these industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">There are many factories manufacturing these items in Dhaka and Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Textile related industries: In small textile industries, bed cloths, garments, hosiery goods, silk cloths etc are manufactured.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">There are many such industries in Dhaka, Pabna, Tangail, Kushtia, Comilla, Rajshahi etc. Cosmetics and soap industries:</sent>
				<sent id ="334">There are many factories producing soap, oil, powder, cream, tooth-paste, bangles etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">These factories are situated in many places of Dhaka, Narayanganj and Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Leather industries: Leather goods like bag, shoe, sandal, moneybag, belt etc meet our demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">These industries are situated at Hajaribag in Dhaka and also in many other places in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">China-clay and aluminium industries: There are countless factories producing porcelain ware like plates, cups, flower vase and also aluminium bowls, dishes and other different kinds of wares in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Safety match industries: There are many factories producing safety matches in many places of Bangladesh including Dhaka, Khulna and Bogra.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Cotton wood, kadam and satian etc are the main raw materials of this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Wood industry: Many kinds of furniture like hardboard, ply-wood, flash doors etc are produced in this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">There are many such industries, both big and small, almost everywhere in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Food industries: Dairy farm, fruit, fish and meat preservation, rice and flour mills, bakery, prepared food etc belong to this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Iron and steel related industries: There are many factories like lathe workshops, small tools, lock and key, and many other iron and steel works manufacturing and repairing workshops in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Besides these, there are many small scale factories in the country producing different types of petty consumer goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">These small scale industries meet our people's demand for items of daily necessities in the first place.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Secondly, some of these industries work as subsidiaries for large scale industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Most of these industries use local easily available raw materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">For the development of this kind of industry, several industrial zones have been formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">As a result of this, the spread of labour intensive small industries has become noticeable.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Once upon a time cottage industries of Bangladesh had great renown.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">But in course of time cottage industries have lost ground to big industries in uneven competition.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Not only that, many of our cottage industries have been loosing ground for different reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">In spite of that, there are still some cottage industries which are described below: Handloom industries:</sent>
				<sent id ="355">This is one of the main and age-old cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">In the past, the muslin of Dhaka was world famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">At present these industries are producing saree, lungi, bed-cloths, dhoti, carchief, mosquito net, towel, katan and jamdani saree etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Tangail, Pabna, Kushtia, Comilla, Bagerhat etc are famous for handloom industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">At present there are 4.5 lac handloom factories in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">About 10 lac workers are employed in this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">These handloom industries meet the most part of our demand for cloths.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Clay industry: In rural Bangladesh, potters make cooking pots, pitchers, tubs, flower vases, idols, toys etc from clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">This industry bears the ancient tradition and culture of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">This industry requires very small capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Pabna and Faridpur districts have earned great fame in this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Bamboo and cane industry: Morha, sofa set, suitcase, basket, kula, flower vase, mat, hand bag, cradle etc made from bamboo and cane are the main products of this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Sylhet, Comilla, Dhaka, Noakhali etc produce good quality bamboo and cane items.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Silk industry: There are silk cultivation centres in Rajshahi, Bogra and Pabna districts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Saree, wrapper, sheet cloths are made from silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Rajshahi silk saree is very popular.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">There is a separate sericulture board in Rajshahi under the Ministry of Textiles for the development of silk industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Brass and bronze industry: Domestic utensils, pitcher, spoon, pots, flower vase etc are made from brass and bronze in the districts of Rajshahi, Narayanganj, Mymensingh, Faridpur, Dhaka etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">These brass and bronze wares were widely used in the country even in the recent past.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Bidi industry: Although there are bidi factories almost everywhere in the country, Rangpur, Kushtia, Jessore, Barisal are famous for this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">About one lac workers are employed in this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">With the spread of cigarette industry, bidi industry is gradually shrinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Conch shell and oyster industry: Dhaka, Jessore, Rangpur districts of Bangladesh are famous for this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Bangles, beads, buttons, combs, toys etc are made in those districts from conch shell, oyster, ivory and bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Metal industry: Everywhere in the country, smiths make spade, axe, knife, scissors, blade of plough, raker etc from metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Coir industry: Rope, door mat, embroidered bed sheet etc are made from coconut coir.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Khulna, Barisal, Noakhali and Chittagong are famous for this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Spinning industry: Coarse cloth (khaddar) is made from home-spun thread in Comilla and Noakhali districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">At present this type of coarse cloth, sheet cloth and garments have gained popularity. Jute related cottage industry: In the cottage industries of Bangladesh, rope, slings (shika), sac, tapestries etc are made from raw jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">These items have good demand both at home and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Ornament industry: Ornament industry has grown up both in urban and rural areas of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Goldsmiths make different types of ornaments with gold and silver.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">This industry is flourishing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Wood industry: Everywhere in Bangladesh, domestic items like petty furniture, stick, plough, toy, bowls, dolls etc are made from wood through cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">These things have good demand all over the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Soap industry: Cottage industries in Dhaka, Chittagong, Jessore, Bogra etc produce common washing soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Salt industry: In the coastal areas of the country, salt is produced from salty sea water.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Thus about 25 lac maund of salt is produced annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Other cottage industries: Petty leather goods for domestic use, book binding, oil-expeller, dhenki, sweet curd and ghee etc are some of the many consumer items which meet our demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">They are produced in our cottage industries almost everywhere in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">5.5 The Importance of Small Scale and Cottage Industries in Bangladesh In Bangladesh agricultural land is limited and big industries are under-developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">To increase production and employment small and cottage industries, therefore, have great importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">These industries have great contribution even in the economy of developed countries like Japan.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Their importance is described below: Mitigating unemployment problem:</sent>
				<sent id ="399">At present one third of the manpower in Bangladesh is unemployed.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">In this situation, the development of small and cottage industries will help providing permanent job for educated and half educated people.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">It will also create opportunity for supplementary occupation and additional income for the farmers.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">Employment opportunity for women: About half of our population is women.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">This huge population needs to be integrated with the economic activities of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">With the development of cottage industries, more employment opportunities for women will be created and family income will rise.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Lessening pressure of population on agriculture: Employment will be created through the development of small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">It will then shift the pressure of excess population from agriculture to industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Proper use of local raw materials: Raw materials for jute, tea, leather, bamboo, cane, timber and so many other industries are easily available here.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">If these raw materials are properly utilized in small and cottage industries both production and income will rise in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Development of rural economy: For the socio-economic development of the rural areas of the country, many more small and cottage industries should be set up there.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">This will help to increase both income and standard of living of the rural people.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Mitigating the problem of capital: Both per capita income and savings are small in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">So there is enough scarcity of capital for investment in heavy and large industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">The development of small capital-based cottage industries is more advantageous here.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Saving foreign exchange: We do not need to import heavy machinery or raw materials for small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">This will help us to save hard earned foreign exchange to spend in other development projects.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Complementary to big industries: Those commodities which are not possible to produce in big industries, can be produced in cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">So cottage industries work as a complementary to big industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Balanced economic development: Big industries are located mainly in towns and cities.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">So the development activities are city centered.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">For a balanced economic development, we have to spread small and cottage industries in the rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Equitable distribution of wealth: People with small income can take part in the development of small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">This will increase the income of the poor and make an equitable distribution of wealth possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Preservation of national art and culture: Bangladeshi people have their old traditional art and culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">It is possible to preserve our traditional art and culture through the development of cottage industries which existed from long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">So in the context of present socio-economic condition of Bangladesh, the importance of small and cottage industries is very great.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">But in the interest of overall industrial development, we have to keep the development of big industries unhindered.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">5.6.1 Self-Employment in Small and Cottage Industries The employment provided for oneself on one's own enterprise to earn a living is called self-employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">The population in Bangladesh is growing very fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">But compared to that, employment opportunities in both government and private sector are fewer.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">At present one third of the total manpower is unemployed.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">To mitigate this severe unemployment problem, self-employment is considered to be an admirable enterprise.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Many educated and half-educated people are coming forward for self-employment through different types of small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">The opportunities for self- employment in small and cottage industries in Bangladesh are described below: Self-employment in small industries:</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Productive activities in different small industries can be started with small and capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">For example, ordinary garment and hosiery goods, silk saree weaving and detergent factories, rice and flour mills, bakery, fast-food shop, furniture workshop etc can be set up.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Besides these, various cosmetics such as, hair oil, powder, snow, writing ink, ball pen, adhesives, small plastic goods etc can be manufactured in one's own homestead.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Local raw materials and cheap equipments are needed for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">In these small enterprises, employment opportunities are created for more people in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Conducted with honesty, sincerity and hard work, these small enterprises can turn into big ones in course of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Almost all cottage industries are run by self enterprise.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Unemployed people of both rural and urban areas can set up cottage industries in an absolutely homely environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">For example, handloom saree, lungi, wrapper, mosquito net, handcarchief, etc are being produced by cottage industries in almost all parts of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Besides this, cottage industries like earthenware, bamboo, cane and wood, brass and bronze utensils, coconut coir items, mat, bidi, needlework etc can be set up very easily in one's own enterprise.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">These industries require very small capital and simple equipments.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Their raw materials are also easily available.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Their market is also very wide in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Both men and women can increase their income by being self-employed through these activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Grameen Bank and other financial institutions can provide capital for these small enterprises.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Private enterprise is gradually rising in these cottage industries almost everywhere in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Individual and national self-dependence can be achieved through employment opportunities created by private enterprises.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">This is why such enterprises are regarded as admirable efforts both at home and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Government patronization and facilities have recently been increased for these enterprises in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">So as a citizen of an independent country, we should make good use of our labour and brain by making efforts to create opportunities for self-employment.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
