<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-eco-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.72</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">789</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">13434</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2633</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t50">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In ordinary sense production means to create any thing or material.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">All kinds of materials of the world are basically given by nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">So, man cannot create any new thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He can only change the form or shape or the place of a material given by nature and thereby create new utility on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In this way a man, with his own intelligence and technical knowledge, can add extra utility to a material given by nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">In Economics, creation of this additional or new utility is called production.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">As for example, the making of cloth from cotton does not mean the creation of goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">It rather means the addition of new or extra utility to cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Economist Fraser says, Producing means putting utility into.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">According to Economists, this created utility must have value-in-exchange, that is to say, that must be marketable.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">So , in Economics, the meaning of production is not the creation of materials, rather it means the creation of extra utility of a thing which has value in exchange or price.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Production means the creation or addition of extra utility to a thing given by nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Production or the process of creation of utility may take place in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The process of the creation of utilities may be classified into five categories.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Form Utility: Utility created by changing the form or shape of any material given by nature is called form utility.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">As for example, the utility of a plank of wood increases when a chair is made by changing its form.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Place Utility: The Utility of a thing increases when it is transferred from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">This is called place utility.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">For example, the utility of wood of forest increases, when it is taken to a town.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Time or Period Utility: The creation of additional utility of a thing also depends on the time differential of its holding.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The utility thus created is called time utility.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">For instance, the price of rice remains low during harvesting time in the months of Poush and Magh.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">This price becomes high if rice is stored and sold in the months of Bhadra and Ashwin.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Service Utility: Utility, created by a man with his labour or services, is called Service Utility.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">As for example, a singer, by singing and a doctor, by his medical services, create utilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Possession or Ownership Utility: Transfer of possession or ownership of a thing creates additional utilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">This is called Utility by Possession or Ownership Utility.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">For example, if anybody gets the possession or ownership of an abandoned house legally, its utility increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Materials and services which are required to produce anything are called factors of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">There are four factors of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Land: All natural resources which help in the production of goods are called land.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Land includes all free gifts of nature like soil and its fertility, mineral resources, forestry and fishery, sunshine, rainfall, climate etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Labour: All physical and mental efforts which are directed to the process of production are called labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">In this sense, the physical work done by a fisherman or a cart puller is labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Similarly, the intellectual efforts of a doctor or a pleader are also labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Capital: The things which are made by human labour and are not consumed directly but are used for further production, are called Capital in Economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">In other words, Capital is the produced means of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">So capital is not the gift of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">It is man made.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Machineries, raw materials, factories etc. are the examples of capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Organization: Organization means managing the work of production by combining and coordinating land, labour and capital in production.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The person who performs this work is called organizer or entrepreneur.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">So, an organizer has to perform different functions; such as, to prepare plan for producing something, combine land, labour and capital and to coordinate them.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Above all, the organizer has to take risks to run the production.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The joint participation of the four factors i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Land, labour, capital and organization, is indispensable to produce anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Production is not possible in absence of any one of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Of course, all factors of production have not the same importance in production.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Depending on the situations, some factors are more useful and some are less.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Bangladesh is primarily an agricultural and thickly populated country.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">So, land and labour are more important here than capital and organization.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">On the other hand, United Kingdom is an industrial country, where the importance of capital and organization is more than that of land and labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">In its ordinary sense, land means the soil or the surface of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">But in Economics the term land is used in a wider sense.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">In Economics, land means all kinds of natural resources including the surface of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">All free gifts of nature and all things which man cannot produce, are included in land.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">In this sense, soil of the earth and its fertility, rainfall, sunshine, humidity, rivers, seas, hills and mountains, mineral resources, forests, fishery, climate and all other free gifts of nature are land.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">In giving the definition of land, Alfred Marshall says, Land means the materials and the forces which nature gives freely for man's aid, in land and water, in air, in light and heat.'</sent>
				<sent id ="59">So all kinds of natural resources which are used in production are called land.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">As original and basic factor of production land has some characteristics, such as: Land is a Gift of Nature: Land is not made by man.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">It is a gift of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The surface of the earth, rivers, seas and oceans, light, sun-shine etc.are created by nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">So these are land.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Land has no Cost of production: Land is created without human labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">So it has no cost of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Land is limited in supply: Land is given by nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">So the supply of land does not increase or decrease because of change in the price of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">So it is said that the supply of land is permanently fixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Land is not movable: Land cannot be transferred from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">It is an immovable factor of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Land is an inactive factor: Land itself cannot produce anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Without cultivation no crop is produced on any land.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Land is Permanent: Land is imperishable.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Land has been existing from immemorial time and will continue to exist in future too.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Marked difference in the quality of Land: All units of land are not equal in quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Some plots of land are more fertile and some others are less fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Again some pieces of land are entirely barren.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Land is subject to the Law of Diminishing Marginal Return:</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In production the tendency of production to increase at a diminishing rate compared to the application of factors, is called the Law of Diminishing Marginal Return.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Although this tendency is seen in cases of all factors, but it operates more quickly in land.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">To increase production an increase in the amount of factors is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">But production increases, in general, at a lower rate than the rate of application of factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">In other words, with the increase in factors the total production increases but at a diminishing rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">This tendency of increase in production at a diminishing rate in relation to the increase of factors is called the Law of Diminishing Marginal Returns.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">In stating the Law, Marshall says, An increase in capital and labour applied in the cultivation of land causes, in general, a less than proportionate increase in the amount of produce raised unless it happens to coincide with an improvement in the art of agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Generally, the application of this law is observed in the case of increasing the production in agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">It may be mentioned that at the initial stage, production may increase at a higher rate than the increase in the amount of factors or cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">But for increasing production, if more and more factors are successively applied, marginal production will gradually decrease.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The law may be explained with the help of an arithmetical example below.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In the above schedule it is observed that at gradual increment of equal amount of labour and capital applied in the fixed 1 hector of land the marginal product has increased at the earlier stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">But at a later stage it has declined gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">To be more specific we can see that with the factor combination A i. e at a cost of Tk. 100 for labour and capital applied on 1 hector of land both the total product and marginal product is 10 quintal of crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">With the factor combination B on the same plot of land the cost has been doubled and total and marginal production have become 22 quintals and 12 quintals respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In this case, the total production has increased at a higher rate than the rate of increase of the cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Then with the third factor combination C, on the same plot of land the amount of labour and capital has been made triple.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Now the total and marginal products have become 30 quintals and 8 quintals respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">At this stage marginal product has decreased from 12 quintals to 8 quintals which means that total production is increasing, but at a diminishing rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">From this stage of production the law of Diminishing Marginal Return has become effective.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">After this, when D combination of labour and capital is used, the marginal product further diminishes from 8 quintal to 4 quintals.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">In production this very tendency of production to increase at a diminishing rate than the increase in cost is known as the Law of Diminishing Marginal Returns.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">In the above diagram the amount of labour and capital is shown on OX axis and marginal product is shown on OY axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Now by joining the points a, b, c and d, we draw a curve MP.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">This is marginal production curve.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It is seen that after the point b the curve has been falling downwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">After the application of OB units i.e. of Tk. 200 worth of labour and capital, the Law of Diminishing Marginal Returns has come into force.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Limitations of the Law: The Law of diminishing returns does not operate in some cases: If an improved method of production is introduced along with the increase of cost of the variable factors, the law does not hold good.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The law may not be effective, if for some natural reasons, the fertility of the soil increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">At the initial stage of production, increase in the cost of labour and capital is very helpful for the best cultivation of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">So, at the initial stage the marginal product increases in relation to the cost of factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">In ordinary sense labour means physical labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">But in Economics the term labour is used in a wide sense.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The physical and mental work which is used in the process of production and which is exchanged for money is called labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Any work which is done only for the sake of enjoyment or showing affection, but with no intention to earn money, is not labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">For example, painting of a picture by an artist for sake of pleasure or nursing of the children by the parents, are not considered as labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">But the works of painting and the services of nursing for the sake of earning money are called labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The Economist Marshall said, Any exertion of mind or body undergone, partly or wholly with a view to some good other than pleasure derived directly from the work is called labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">As one of the basic factors of production labour has some characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">These are: Labour is a living factor: Labour is a living factor as a labourer has life.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Labour exists as long as the labourer survives.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Labour is temporary: Factors like land and capital can be stored if they are not used in due time.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">But the unused labour cannot be stored.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">If labour is not used at the proper time, it perishes for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Labour and Labourer are inseparable: Land and capital can be separated from their owners, but labour cannot be separated form labourers.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">As labour is bodily connected with the labourer, the presence of a labourer is indispensable at the time of selling his labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">A labourer sells out labour, but not own self: A labourer sells out his/her labour for wage, but does not sell own self.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Buying of an animal gives ownership of both of its body and service.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">But in the case of labour, the buyer can get only the service of the labourer in exchange of wage without claiming any right on his body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The Change in the Supply of Labour is time consuming: The supply of labour depends on the size of population, the rate of population increase, education, efficiency of labour etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">These factors change slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">So, it is not possible to increase or decrease the supply of labour with an increase of decrease of wage.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The bargaining power of labourer is poor: As labour is transitory and not suitable for being stored, unused labour is wasted for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Because of this characteristic, the labourers cannot bargain with the employer on the rate of wages.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">So the labourers ate compelled to work even at low wages.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Inverse relationship between the Supply of labour and the rate of wage:</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The supply of a commodity rises with the rise of its price and falls with the fall of its price.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">But in case of labour, if wage rises, the labourers work less to enjoy leisure.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">And when wages fall, they work more to increase their income.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Labour is mobile: At higher wages labourers can move from one place to another place, from one profession to another and even from one stage to another of the same profession.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">So labour is mobile.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Labour is an active factor: Land and capital are considered as inactive factors since they cannot start the process of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">They can be active in production when man starts taking efforts for production.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">So labour is an active factor of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The total amount of labour which the able-bodied persons of a country are willing to sell at different wages is the supply of labour of that country.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">If 1 hour of work of a labourer is treated as 1 labour unit or 1 labour- hour, the total amount of labour hours which the able bodied person are willing to sell at the prevailing different wages is called the supply of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The supply of labour of a country depends mainly on two factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Total population of a country: Population is the main source of the supply of labour of a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Generally, if the size of population is large, more will be the supply of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">But, as the children, old and sick persons are not able to work; the total population of a country does not supply labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Only the able persons offer their labour for different works.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Naturally, in a country where the number of able persons is large, the supply of labour is also large.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">In our country the number of children is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">So, in spite of large size of population, the supply of labour is small.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Efficiency of Labour: Efficiency of labour means the capacity to perform a work properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">At a particular period of time an efficient labour can contribute more to production..</sent>
				<sent id ="155">So in a particular country more the labourers are efficient, more will be the supply of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">In spite of having a large size of population, the supply of labour in Bangladesh is low as most of the labourers are not efficient.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The ability of labourer to work is known as efficiency of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">If the the efficiency of labour increases, the productivity of labour increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">In the developed countries of the world, because of high efficiency of labour both the volume and the quality of production are high.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The efficiency of labour depends on the following factors: Ability to Work: First, the efficiency of labour depends upon the ability to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The ability to work again depends upon factors like the physical fitness of the labourer, climate, food, intelligence, moral and traits of character, technical education and training etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Willingness to Work: Along with ability to work the labourers must have the willingness to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The willingness to work is influenced by some factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">These are the reasonable wage, the scope for wage increment, promotion prospect, permanency of job, leaves and retirement and other financial benefits etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">These factors increase the willingness of the labourers to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The efficiency of the organization: If the management system of a factory is efficient and of high quality, the ability and the willingness to work of the labourers working there easily increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The Environment of the factory: If the condition of the factory- both inside and its surroundings, is neat and clean with access to sufficient air and light and if there is discipline in the factory, then the labourers keep physically sound and mentally happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">As a result, their efficiency increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Modern Machineries: The labourers get inspiration in their work if the factory uses modern machineries and equipments and applies newer techniques in production.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">As a result, their productivity increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The efficiency of the labourers in the developed countries is much high because, they work with the latest production techniques and modern machineries.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Social Security: While working in the factory, the labourers may become disabled or sick and thereby become incapable of working or even they may die due to any accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Under these circumstances there should be provision for financial security.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">That is, the provision for payment of compensation, insurance, old age pension etc. dispels the sense of insecurity of the labourers.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">As a result, their efficiency may increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Besides, social and political stability of a country, the existence of healthy trade union, good relationships with the employers, continuous development of the factory etc. increase the efficiency of labourers.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">As compared to the developed countries, the efficiency of labour in Bangladesh is very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The following factors are responsible for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Because of lack of adequate food, clothing, housing, education and medical facilities the standard of living of our labourers is very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">So their physical and mental capacity is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Besides, the humid climate affects the ability of the labourers to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Low wage, adverse conditions of work, lack of continuity of work, lack of prospects in the service, lack of other facilities etc. create apathy to work among the labourers of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">As a result, their efficiency does not increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Management in most of the factories or business organizations in Bangladesh are of low standard and faulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">So, the willingness and the ability to work of the labourers here are low.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The overall environment of factories in Bangladesh is not good enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">There is the dearth of sufficient light and air inside the factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">There is also the lack of neatness and cleanliness and the lack of discipline in work.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Because of such bad environment the efficiency of the labourers is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">In most of the factories in our country old and worn-out machineries and equipment are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The production techniques are also obsolete and raw materials which are used are of low quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">For all these reasons the efficiency of labour is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">For the labourer class in Bangladesh the provision of social security measures is almost absent.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The labourers hardly get any help in times of accidents and other distresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Besides, there exists social and political unrest.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">For all these reasons the efficiency of the majority of labourers are low.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">For improving the efficiency of labour, adequate provision for reasonable pay, allowances, facilities for housing, medical and education and training etc. should be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">As a result of this, the standard of living of the labourers will improve and their efficiency of work will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">For increasing the willingness of the labour to work, provision for maintaining the job security, prospect of promotion in the job, pension allowance, calamity support, bonus, entertainment facilities should be created.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Efficient management system of business organization can improve the attention of labourers to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">This will at the same time increase their efficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">For improving the working environment in the factories cleanliness, sufficient light and air and overall maintenance of healthy environment are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Modern machines and equipments need to be installed in the factories so that the labourers can learn to use the modern techniques of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Simultaneously, the entrepreneurs may make efforts to develop the potentialities of the labourers through the innovation of new methods and techniques of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">To safeguard the interest of the labourers various welfare labour laws should be enacted.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">There should be scope for the formation of constructive and well organized labour unions.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Social and political stability and peace should be maintained as far as possible in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Cordial relationship between the labourers and the employers should be created and maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">These steps will be helpful for the industrialization of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The supply of labour in a country, in fact, depends on the size of active population.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The supply of active population, again, depends on the balance between the size of population and the available resources of a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">If the size of population is in harmony with the resources of a county, the size of active population i.e. the supply of labour increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The theory which discusses the adjustment between the size of population and the amount of national resources is called population theory.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">In a population theory the relation between population and resources, the nature of population growth and its causes, problems of high growth of population and their solution, population control etc. are discussed.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Among the theories of population the Malthusian theory of population is the main.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">In 1798 Thomas Robert Malthus, an English clergyman and economist, in his book Essay on the Principle of Population as it affects the future improvement of Society propounded a theory on population.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The theory is known as the Malthusian theory of Population after his name.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">According to Malthus, population of a country, due to biological reasons, increases rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">If no control is imposed upon this growth, population in a country becomes double after every 25 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">But the supply of land is fixed and because of the prompt operation of the law of diminishing returns in agriculture production of food increases very slowly than that of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">According to his opinion population increases in a geometrical progression, such as, 1,2,4,8,16 and the food production increases in an arithmetical progression, such as 1,2,3,4,5 etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The size of population, growing in geometrical progression will very soon far outstrip the food supply growing in arithmetic progression.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">As a result, a time will come when the balance between food production and size of population will be disturbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Under such circumstances there will be food deficit or food problem in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">This situation is called the condition of over population.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">According to Malthus, growth of population can be checked by two ways a. Preventive checks and b.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Malthus terms late marriage, restraints in marital life, maintaining virginity, birth control etc. as preventive checks.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">These checks, by reducing the birth rate, exert an influence on the growth of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">If people do not adopt these measures, nature itself takes away the surplus population through natural calamities such as poverty, malnutrition, epidemics, famine, war etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Malthus calls these measures of nature as positive checks.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">This system of measures, by increasing the death rate, restores a balance between population and supply of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">But the balance which is established between the population and the food supply by positive checks is very temporary.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Apart from this, positive checks are not desirable to anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">So, Malthus laid importance on the preventive checks to control population growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The Malthusian theory of population has been criticized in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">According to Malthus, population grows in geometrical progression.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">But due to the strong tendency of birth control among the people as a result of the spread of education and rise in their standard of living, population increases at a slow rate in many developed countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Now a days as improved inputs are used in agriculture the law of diminishing return does not operate in agriculture promptly.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">As a result production of food in many cases increases fast and the shortage of food does not occur in spite of the increase of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Malthus considered population from the view-points of food production only.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">He did not compare population to the total resources of the country, If there occurs any food shortage in a country, that might be faced by importing food from other counties in exchange of other resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Malthus has considered only the horrible side of the growth of population; he did not foresee its good sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The supply of labour increases with the growth of population and it is possible to meet the demand for increasing labour force for establishing industries and for the expansion of trade and commerce etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Malthus considered only the quantitative side of population neglecting the qualitative side.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">As a matter of fact, if a definite number of people are literate, active and enterprising, then they can be considered as asset of the country, but not the liability.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">According to Malthus an increase in population always creates problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">But this is not really true.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">If, with the increase of population fair distribution of wealth is made effective, then the problems of over population can be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Division of labour means to divide the process of production into several stages and distribute works among the labourers according to their ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">As for example, in a modern shoe factory some workers tan leather, some others cut it, some of them make souls, some do the work of sewing, some drive nails and some others do the work of polishing etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">This sort of division of work among laourers in any productive field is called division of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">When division of labour is introduced in producing any commodity, a labourer produces only a specific part of that commodity.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">But a commodity or goods is produced with the cooperation of everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Division of labour is thus related to exchange, mutual co-operation and quality of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">There are many advantages of division of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Increase of production: As a result of division of labour volume of production increases largely and the prices of commodities come down.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Increase of skill and abilities to work: With the introduction of division of labour in production a labourer does the same work again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">As a result, he gradually becomes skilled and efficient in that work.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Optimum use of machines: Because of division of labour a labourer has to use a specific machine all the time and helps proper use of the machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Invention of new machines: Under division of labour, a labourer, by constantly using a particular machine acquires thorough knowledge of the machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">This experience may help him to go for new invention.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Use of different types of machineries: The greater the degree of division of labour applied in production greater is the scope of using different machines by workers easily in a factory.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">In modern times because of division of labour the use of new and up-to-date machines are seen in factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Proper use of time: As a result of division of labour a worker has to do only one work and he is not to change one work for another.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">So proper use of time is ensured.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Employment according to fitness: As a result of division of labour, a labourer is employed in a specific work according to his fitness.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">It is thus possible to fully utilize his ability and skill in production.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Increase of the mobility of labour: Division of labour splits up the process of production into small parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Consequently, many works of different factories become similar.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">So workers of one factory may easily get work in another factory.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Increase of employment: Division of labour increases the number and variety of works.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">New employment opportunities are created in the large scale industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">This reduces the volume of unemployment.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Increase of wages: Division of labour increases the efficiency and productivity of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">This, in turn, leads to the increase of wage and the standard of living of the labourers.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Creation of monotony: As a result of division of labour a worker has to do the same work all the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">So the work becomes monotonous and unattractive to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Absence of the joy of creation: Under division of labour a worker is engaged in the production of only one part of a goods/commodity.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">As a result he becomes deprived of the joy of creation of the entire goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Decrease of overall skill: Under division of labour a worker has to do a definite work for all the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Consequently, his efficiency in that work increases but he becomes unfit for other works.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Creation of unemployment: Under division of labour a labourer learns only one work.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">If he looses the job for some reason, he cannot find employment in other work.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">As a result, he suddenly becomes unemployed.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Emergence of class struggle: As a result of division of labour, the society is divided into two classes- labourers and employers.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The employers want to deprive and exploit the workers.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The class struggle emerges in the society when the labourers are engaged in the struggle for their existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Pollution of environment: As the outcome of division of labour many factories and workshops are set up in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">These factories leave the abandoned spare parts and wastes over the surrounding areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Moreover, in the factory areas narrow and overcrowded slums grow up.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">As a result, environments are polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Obstacle to mental development: Under division of labour, a worker does the same work or use the same machine again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">At this, his mental development is hampered and his outlook becomes narrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Division of labour has both advantages and disadvantages.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">But advantages are more than the disadvantages.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">So it is rational to introduce division of labour in production and to make efforts to remove its disadvantages.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Population is an important factor for the economic and social development of a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">If population is large in relation to the resources of a country, many people become unemployed, deficit of goods and services and food shortage occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">These problems create economic and social disturbances and hamper economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">On the other hand, if there is a balance between population and resources of the country, the supply of labour increases, proper use of resources becomes possible, per capita goods and services increases and their standard of living improves.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">So, the balance between the population of a country and its resources is desirable.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Population of any country plays a very important role in its economic and social life.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">So, the study of population is done from different points of view.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">It is necessary to know what role population can play for the economic development of Bangladesh and for improving the standard of social life of its people.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">With this end in view, it is necessary to analyze the population of this country from different standpoints.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Although the area of Bangladesh is equal to the ratio of one to three thousand of the total land area of the world, its position in terms of population is eighth in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">In this sense, Bangladesh is one of the populace countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">According to population census report of 1991 the population of this country at that time was 11 cores and 14 lac and the rate of population growth was 2.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">At present the population of Bangladesh is 14.66 crore and the rate of population growth is 1.39</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Such a large size of population in a small country like Bangladesh has turned it into a country of over population.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">According to the Population Census of 1991, in Bangladesh the ratio of female to male was 100:106.This ratio in urban and rural areas is 100:126.3 and 100:102.8</sent>
				<sent id ="312">In view of high death rate of female, the ratio of female to male is low in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">In the developed countries the ratio of female to male is much high.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">For example, in Japan the ratio of female to male is 100:96.2</sent>
				<sent id ="315">In U.S.A it is 100:99.7 and in England it is 100:94.3.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">The socio-economic condition of a country can be known from the distribution of its population between villages and towns.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">In the developed countries the majority of the people live in towns.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">As for instance, in Japan the percentage of people living in towns is 77, in France it is 79 and in England it is 78, whereas in Bangladesh 80 percent of its people live in villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">In Bangladesh the size of labour force is very small in relation to the size of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Because, here in Bangladesh the number of people below 15 years of age is 47 percent.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">According to Population Census of 1991 the total labour force of this country is about 5.07 crores.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Of this labour force, about 45.1% work in villages and about 54.9% work in towns.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The majority of the people of Bangladesh are employed in agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">But in recent times as a result of the process of increasing urbanization the transfer of labour force from agriculture to non- agricultural sectors has been taking place.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">According to the Report of 1991 Census, 73.8% of population is employed in agriculture and 26.2% in non- agricultural sectors.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Both birth rate and death rate in Bangladesh are high.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">According to the Population Census Report of 1991 birth rate and death rate per thousand are 31.3</sent>
				<sent id ="328">persons and 11.00 persons respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">In 2006 birth rate per thousand was 20.6* and death rate was 5.6* per thousand.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">As compared to the birth rates and death rates of the developed countries, these two rates are very high in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">As for example, the birth rates and death rates per thousand are 15 and 9 persons in USA, 14 and 12 in England, 14 and 6 in Japan and 15 and 10 in France respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">According to a recent report of population census the literacy rate of the people above 15 years of age is 48.7 percent Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">This rate of literacy is very low as compared to other countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">For instance, the literacy rate is 73% in Sri Lanka, 60% in Myanmar (Burma) and 99% in France.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Most of the people of Bangladesh are dependent on others.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">People under 15 years and over 60 years of age are regarded as dependents.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">According to the Census of 1991 the dependency rate in this country is about 52%.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">But this rate is 35% in USA, 32% in Japan and 43% in India.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Bangladesh is one of the densely populated countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">This situation has developed due to high rate of population growth during the last few decades.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">According to the Census of 19991 the rate of population growth was 2.At present due to the success of the programme of Population control the rate of population growth has come down to 1.39 %*.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">From table 2 it is seen that the rate of population growth during the last few decades was very high in comparison with the past.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">For this very reason the population of Bangladesh, which was only 2 crores 89 lac in 1901, increased to 11 crores 14 lacs in 1991 and to 12.93 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">The rate of population growth of some other countries of the world may be observed side by side with that of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">The rate of population growth of some countries of the world including Bangladesh are shown in the following table.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">From the above table it is seen that the rate of population growth of Bangladesh is much higher than those of other countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">It is to be mentioned that rate of population growth in Bangladesh is 139.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">The rate of population growth is very high in Bangladesh compared to other countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">There are many social and economic causes behind this high rate of population growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Lack of Education: The majority of the people of Bangladesh are illiterate.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">For this reason they are not aware of the bad effects of population increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">As a result they give birth to many children.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Social Superstitions: Due to lack of education, most of the people of Bangladesh believe in superstitions, conservatism and the prevailing dogmas.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">As a result, they express unwillingness in many cases to accept birth control measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Consequently, population is growing up and up.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Absence of women freedom: In Bangladesh women are dependent on men.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Their willingness does not get priority in the offspring of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">So, they do not have any control on the number of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Lack of Recreation Facilities: The majority people of our country are poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">They are deprived of the minimum facilities for amusement and recreation.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Even for running after happiness within a large family they give birth to many children.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">High Mortality Rate of children: The death rare of children in our country is very high as compared to other countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Here, in Bangladesh 90 (approx.)</sent>
				<sent id ="364">children per thousand die every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">For this reason parents in our country have the tendency to have more children.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">As a result the birth rate is also high.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Early Marriage: In the villages of Bangladesh girls between 14 to 18 years of age are given to marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Such early marriage widens the chances of more births of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Poverty: Poverty and fecundity go side by side.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">A large number of people in Bangladesh live below the poverty level.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">So the tendency to give birth to child is very high among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Low Standard of Living: The standard of living of the people in Bangladesh is very low due to lack of nutritious food, medical facilities, housing facilities and education etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">The cost of bringing up a child is comparatively low here.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">So the majority of people are not careful of giving birth to children.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Agricultural Economy: Bangladesh is an agricultural county.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">The farmers community of this country desire to have many children as support to farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">So the birth rate is high.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Expectation of security in old age: For majority of people in Bangladesh there is no security measure in their old age.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Most of the people depend on their children at old age.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">In the expectation of security many people are willing to have more children.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Lack of suitable birth control methods: The majority of the people of Bangladesh are illiterate and poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">They are ignorant of different methods of birth control.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Moreover, different prescribed materials of birth control are not easily available.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">So the rate of population growth is very high in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">The number of people living per square kilometer is called density of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Density of population is obtained by dividing the total size of population of a country by its total area.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">So, by density of population, we mean the ratio between land area and the size of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">On the assumption of the total area of a county remaining constant, the density of population increases or decreases with the increase or decrease in the number of population respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Generally, the determining factors of density of population of a country are physical feature of land, climate, soil, land area, birth rate, economic development, life style, transport system, industrial development etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">The area of Bangladesh is 1, 47,570 square kilometers.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">As compared to other countries of the world the density of population of this country is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">This has been further increasing with the increase of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">In 1974 the density of population in this country was 497 persons per square kilometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">The density of population was 624,755,810, and 854 persons in the years 1981, 1991, 1993 and 1998 respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">The density of population of Bangladesh is very high as compared to other countries of Asia.In 2010 the denisty of Population in Bangladesh is 993 sq km.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The size of population of Bangladesh is very large as compared to its land area.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">The rate of population growth is also very high in comparison with other countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">This condition is exerting pressure upon the limited resources of the country and different social and economic problems have been emerging.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Low standard of living: The majority of the people of Bangladesh are poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">The trend of population increase is very high among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">As a result of the rapid growth of population, problems of scarcity of pure water, medical facilities, education etc. have been increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">So, the standard of living has been further deteriorating.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Malnutrition: Due to rapid increase in population it has become almost impossible to supply adequate milk, egg, fish, meat etc. for the people, especially for the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">As a result, the problem of malnutrition has cropped up in the county.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">At present 80% of the children in the country have become the victims of malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Housing Problem: It has become impossible to provide housing facilities to the surplus population matching the rapid growth of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Consequently, acute housing problem has emerged in the country especially in the urban area.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Moreover, making provision of houses for the extra population has reduced the area of the cultivable lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Hindrances to the development of human resource: Due to high growth of population a lot of money is being spent on food and clothing for the surplus population.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">So, it has become impossible to spend money for human resource development, such as for education, health, technical education etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Pollution of Environment: Environment is being seriously polluted because of rapid increase in population.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Due to excessive growth of population the scarcity of the supply of pure water, insufficient sewerage & drainage system, unplanned growth of factories, large scale deforestation etc. are taking place.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">These problems, by polluting environment seriously, have endangered the public health.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Increase of unemployment: The rate of industrial development is very slow in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">There is also the pressure of population on agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Under these circumstances, unemployment problem has been increasing day by day due to increase of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">At present about 2.2 million of the total active population are unemployed.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Food deficiency: For the last three decades there has been an acute food deficit in our country because of rapid increase in population.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">To meet this deficit we have to import food grains in exchange of valuable foreign currencies.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">As a result, the imports of necessary raw materials and machineries for industrialization are hindered.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">For these reasons industrialization in our country is being hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Increase in the Prices of Goods and Services: The production of goods and services is not matching the fast increasing population of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">At this, the supply of goods and services falls short of their demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">So prices of these goods and services have increased abnormally and created sufferings in the lives of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Excessive dependence on foreign aid: For the maintenance of huge population, huge amount of resources are necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">But our country, being poor, cannot afford such amount of resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">In this situation we are compelled to depend upon foreign aid.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">This dependence on foreign aid has become a constraint to the attainment of our self- reliance.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Subdivision and fragmentation of holdings: Due to the lack of industrialization there is hardly any scope for employment in the non-agricultural sectors of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">As population increases the surplus people are bound to depend on agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">As a result the pressure of population on agricultural land is increasing and the holdings of those lands are being gradually sub-divided, fragmented and smaller.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Problem of capital formation: Expenditure in the unproductive sectors is increasing in Bangladesh due to its ever increasing population.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">As a result our savings are becoming low.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Due to low savings the rate of capital formation in the country is also low.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Problem of international trade: For meeting the different needs of the vast population expenditure on imports are gradually increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">But due to slow pace of industrialization exports also are not growing well.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">As a result the deficit in the balance of international payment is continuously increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Loss of benefit of economic development: The additional amount of goods and services produced as the outcome of development are being distributed among the ever increasing number of population of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">In spite of development per capita income of the people is not increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">So we are being deprived of the benefits of development.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">The present size of population in Bangladesh and its growth rate has created manifold problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">In effect, economic development is being hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">So the solution of the problem of population is the most desirable.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Economic development: One of the main measures for solving the problem of population is Economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">The attainment of fast economic development is possible by increasing production of goods and services in the sectors of agriculture and industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">The standard of living of the people will improve with the economic development and there will be change of outlook in favour of birth control.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">The rate of population growth will also decline.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Spread of education: Educated people are more aware of the necessity of birth control.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">So, to control population in the country the illiterate and superstitious people should be imparted modern education.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">If education brings qualitative development of the people, then they will try to keep the size of their families small in their own interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Spread of female education: About half of the total population of Bangladesh are women.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">So, they need to be motivated to control population.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Through the expansion of female education, the women folk should be made aware of the necessity of birth control.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">As a result the programme for birth control will be successful.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Proper distribution of wealth: There exists extreme inequality in the distribution of national income in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Economic power is concentrated in the hands of a few persons, whereas the majority of the people are very poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">If proper distribution of the available wealth is ensured, income of every body will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">This will raise their standard of living and the people will be eager to control population.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Multifarious employment: Multiple employment facilities for the unemployed men and women should be created in different parts of the country by setting up of cottage industries, poultry farm, dairy farm, fisheries, nurseries, orchard, garment industries etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">As a result, they will be free from the curses of unemployment and will start achieving improved standard of living.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">People being accustomed to high standard of living will have small families and thereby the pressure of population will decrease.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Redistribution of population: The density of population is not uniform in all the districts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">The density of population is very high in the districts of Dhaka, Comilla etc. whereas it is very low in Chittagong Hill Tracts, Bandarban etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">If people are transferred from the densely populated areas to thinly populated areas, the problem of population will be solved to some extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">International transfer of population: The size of population in many countries is very small.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">The export of surplus manpower from Bangladesh to those countries will help to solve the problem of over population.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">By this time the export of manpower from Bangladesh to other countries including Middle East has significantly increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Legislation: If it is possible, through legislation, to curb early marriage and polygamy and to approve abortion, then birth rate will decline.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Besides this, it is necessary to increase the minimum marriageable age and to execute it.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">Successful application of legislation is to be ensured through mass propaganda and increasing public awareness.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Family planning: Family planning means to control the number of members of a family in a planned way.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">This family planning programme can be made popular and successful through some measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">These are the dispelling of superstitions and dogmas through spread of education, motivating the people to keep the size of the family small, by holding mass publicity about the different methods and medicines of birth control etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">In order to control population growth, the planned efforts to keep the size of the family limited or small is called family planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">If the number of children is less and consistent with the income of the family, then that family will be well off and happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">So, the parents should have less number of children through family planning so that the family can lead solvent and happy life.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">If the number of members of families can be kept less, then the total population of the country will be less.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">Over population has created various economic and social problems in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">The importance of family planning can hardly be denied to contain the growth of population and to combat the problems of population growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">These are discussed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">If the rate of growth of population is reduced through family planning, the food deficit and unemployment of the country will be reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">If the pressure of population on land is reduced, the subdivision of agricultural land will be reduced and production will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">Our per capita income and savings will increase if it is possible to keep the size of population small through family planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">The standard of living of the people will improve and capital formation will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">If we have the small size of population, the social benefits will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Large number of people will get educational and medical facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">So, on the whole it can be said that by combating high rate of population growth, family planning helps to solve various socio-economic problems of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">As a result, the pace of economic development will be smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">So the importance of family planning in solving the problem of population in Bangladesh is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">It is therefore necessary to remove all sorts of hindrances to successfully implement the programme of family planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">In every country after a certain interval of time, say after 10 years in general, a survey is conducted to know the different aspects of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">This is what is called population census.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">Statistics on the size of population, rate of growth of population, density of population, number of male and female population and their ratio, distribution of population between villages and towns, birth rate, death rate, life span, child mortality rate, dependency rate, literacy rate etc. are collected in specific formats.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">Before starting this work a good number of people are trained beforehand.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">These trained personnel are called enumerators.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">They go from house to house to collect different data on population.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">After collection of data, these are processed to prepare at first, district wise reports or parts there of and then finally a concise/summary National Report.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) under the Ministry of Establishment conducts the Population Census.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">There is an Advisory Committee consisting of a team of specialists for this work.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">The committee supervises and conducts the overall work of the Population Census.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">Usefulness of Population Census: Population census report of a country provides different information about different aspects of the population of that country.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">On the basis of the census reports taken at different times some decisions are taken regarding population after certain interval.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">These decisions are important in the formulation of plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">The usefulness of a population census is discussed below:</sent>
				<sent id ="505">From the Census Report, the size of population of a country and the degree of consistency of the rate of population growth with the growth of national wealth can be known.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">This can be said from the growth rate of population whether population is increasing in an uncontrolled way.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">Observing death rate one can comment on the food and medical facilities of a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">If the death rate is high, it is evident that people are the victims of malnutrition and the lack of sufficient medical facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Observing the density of population it can be said that the country is over populated or under populated.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">If the density of population is high, it is evident that there is housing problem in the country with the environmental pollution at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">The distribution of population between villages and towns helps us to know whether a country is primarily rural or urban based.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">Moreover, if the number of urban people increases with the passage of time, it means that the degree of urbanization increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">From the population census the data on the structure of population according to age can be found.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">This database helps to know the size of active population and the dependent population.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">From the distribution of population according to occupation we can know whether majority of the people are employed in agriculture or in industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">If majority of the people are engaged in agriculture, the country is an agricultural one, such as Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">Again, if most of the people are employed in industries, it means that the country is industrial, such as England.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">In this way on the basis of population census report the different aspects of population of a country can be known.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">In fact, population census reports provide definite guidelines in the formulation of any social or economic development plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">In its general sense, capital means the amount of cash money invested in a business.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">But, in economics the term capital is used in a special sense.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">That part of man made wealth which is not consumed directly but used for further production is called capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">The plough which is made of coal and iron and human labour is used in agricultural production.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">Here the plough is capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">According to Bohm Bawerk Capital is the produced means of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">That is to say, the different goods and services which are produced by human labour and used for further production are capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">In this sense, machineries, raw materials, godowns etc. are called capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">Ordinarily savings means to accumulate money.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">But in Economics it has a different meaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">The part of income which is not spent for present consumption but is kept for future is called savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">As for example, the total monthly income of a person is Tk.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">2,000.00 and his monthly expenditure is Tk.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">1500.Here his monthly saving is Tk.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">In the ordinary sense of the term, investment means to spend money in business or trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">But in Economics it has a special meaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">In Economics investment means the amount of new capital goods which is added to the existing stock of capital goods in a definite time period.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Investment means the increase in the amount of capital goods like machines, buildings, raw materials and the stock of goods in a factory.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">According to economist Lord Keynes, The amount of capital goods which is added to the amount of capital that already existed beforehand is called investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">Let us say for instance, at a given time a factory has capital goods of Tk. 1 Lakh.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">For the increasing production more capital goods of Tk. 20 thousands are added.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">This new addition of capital goods is called investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">The part of income which remains as residue after expenditure is called savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">Savings is the difference between income and consumption expenditure.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">And savings, when used in production to increase the stock of capital or to create new capital, is called investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">In fact, investment originates in savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">So investment depends on savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">When the money saved is used to produce capital goods, production and income increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">As a result savings and investment increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">Savings is thus the basis of investment and effective investment increases income and thereby increases savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">So it is said that an intricate relationship exists between savings and investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">The modern system of production is capital intensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">Under this system of production capital performs some important functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">These are as follows:</sent>
				<sent id ="554">Increase of production: In the process of production capital goods like different kinds of machineries, equipments, raw materials etc. are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">The use of these capital goods increases the volume of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">For this reason the rate of production is high in the fields of large scale industry and mechanized agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">Increase of the efficiency of labour: The use of different types of machineries in production reduces the intensity of physical labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">So they can do their respective works with more care and sincerity.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">As a result, their efficiency increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">Supply of factors of production: Capital goods such as machineries, furniture, raw materials, buildings etc. are considered as very essential inputs.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">The increase of these inputs in production increases the volume of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">Introduction of division of labour: Division of labour is an important method in the modern process of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">The use of increased amount of capital goods in production makes it possible to introduce the division of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">Savings of time: The application of capital goods like machineries and equipments in the process of production helps to produce more within less time.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">The savings of time in producing a given amount of goods may afford more leisure to the labourer.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">Decrease in the cost of production: The application of capital goods makes large scale production possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">As a result many advantages can be enjoyed because of internal economies.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">So the cost of production decreases and the prices of goods in the market also decrease.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">Possibility of large scale production: In large scale production the volume of production increases with high quality and standard of products.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Only the use of modern and improved machineries can make large scale production possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">Increase of employment: The total employment in the country depends on the amount of capital goods applied in the field of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">The more is the amount of capital, the more of new factories will be set up.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">As a result, the demand for labour will increase and more people will get employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">Continuity of production: Investment of capital in production helps the productive process to repeat the cycle of production continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">As a result the continuity of production is maintained and the consumers are not to wait for the goods being produced due to time lag in production.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">Rapid economic development: It is possible to increase the volume of goods and services by proper use of natural resources of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">Capital has an effective role to play in this respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">That means greater use of capital speeds up the process of economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">So, the demand for capital gradually increases in the developing countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">For these functions of capital, it is possible to produce quality and standard goods at low cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">The modern production system is capital intensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">With the use of increasing amount of capital in production the volume of production of goods and services increases and the rate of development is accelerated.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">The importance of capital in the economic development of a country is explained below:</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Proper utilization of resources: Proper utilization of all resources of the country is necessary for economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">To achieve this objective the extensive use of capital is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">Because, only the capital intensive endeavour can make it possible to discover, extract and utilize mineral, forest and water resources properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">Building of social and economic overheads: Transport and communication system, ports, electric power, irrigation system etc. are called economic overheads.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">Educational institutions, hospitals etc. are called social overheads.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">For quick economic development it is necessary to build strong economic and social overheads and in this regard the use of capital is indispensable.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">Increase of efficiency of labour: Efficiency of labour increases as a result of the use of increased capital of improved quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">An efficient labourer can produce more.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">Production of more goods and services is helpful to economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">Creation of employment: Capital formation helps to establish new mills and factories through investment and as a result trade and commerce expands.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">So, many people can get employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">Modernization of agriculture and industry: The use of improved machineries, raw materials and improved technology modernize the system of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="596">As a result, production increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">So, the use of improved machineries, raw materials etc. in agriculture and industry helps to make the production system up-to-date and increases the volume of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">As a result economic development is also accelerated.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">More production at less cost: The use of more capital makes large scale production possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">As a result of large scale production, cost (of production) decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">So, more commodities are produced at less cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">Invention of new machineries and technology: Expensive and improved machineries are used in capital intensive production.</sent>
				<sent id ="603">The labourers, by piloting repeated experiments with these machineries, can invent new machineries and techniques of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">Improvement of standard of living: Use of more capital increases production per head of worker.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">As a result the wages of the wages of the workers also increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">So they are in a position to purchase more goods and services.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">Consequently their standard of living improves.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">In the light of above discussion it may be said that for rapid economic development of a country the importance of capital is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">Because of the paucity of capital the economic development of the countries like Bangladesh faces obstacles.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">The formation of capital and its investment oat a higher rare can only make economic development possible in these countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="611">Capital formation means a net increase in the stock of real capital goods in a country in a definite time period.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">In other words, increase in the production of capital goods such as more machines, raw material, factories, electricity, transportation materials, roads and high ways, dams etc. is called capital formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">Capital is formed when the amount of money saved by the people of a country are mobilized and invested in the production of capital goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">So, in economics the process by which money is saved, mobilized and invested in the production of capital goods is called capital formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">At the end of the process the amount of capital goods produced is called the amount of capital formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">Let us suppose, till the month of June 1994, the amount of capital in Bangladesh was worth taka 5000 cores.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">Formation of capital primarily depends on savings and investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">Capital is formed when saving are collected and invested properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="619">In a modern and free economy the process of capital formation is divided into three stages.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">Creation of money savings: The primary stage of the process of capital formation is the creation of money savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">In capitalistic and mixed economic societies savings are created from individual/personal savings, corporate savings and government savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="622">But personal savings play the main role in the creation of savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">The personal savings depends upon the ability and willingness to save of the persons or people.</sent>
				<sent id ="624">A. Ability to save: Personal savings depends also on the willingness to save side by side with the ability to save.</sent>
				<sent id ="625">The willingness to save in a country is influenced by some factors as stated below:</sent>
				<sent id ="626">a. Foresight: The willingness to save is more intense among the persons who are conscious about the maintenance and security of their families in future i.e. who are foresighted.</sent>
				<sent id ="627">Family affection: The persons who have more affection and love for the members of the members are eager to save money for the future happiness and comfort of their family.</sent>
				<sent id ="628">c. High ambition and desire for prestige: Savings bring riches which increase social prestige at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="629">So, people with high ambition for power and prestige save more.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">Miserliness: Miserly people are always habituated to save more at the expense of present consumptions.</sent>
				<sent id ="631">e. Security of life and property: If there is peace, law and order in the country, there is security of life and property.</sent>
				<sent id ="632">Under such circumstances people are inclined to save curtailing present consumption for more consumption in future.</sent>
				<sent id ="633">Rate of interest: Rate of interest specially influences the savers.</sent>
				<sent id ="634">If the banks and financial institutions pay interest at a higher rate, people's eagerness to save increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="635">Taxation: The taxation policy of the Government influences the saving habits of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="636">If the rate of taxation is high, people save less.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">Literacy rate: The spread of education in the country increases the awareness about their personal and social welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">At this, their willingness to save increases to some extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">Besides personal savings, the savings of non-government organizations, profit of public institutions, revenue surplus, public debt, foreign aid etc. influence the amount of savings in a country to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="640">The second stage of capital formation is the need for mobilizing the personal money savings in order to supply them for investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="641">Because, only savings is not sufficient for capital formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="642">For capital formation savings are to be mobilized.</sent>
				<sent id ="643">The isolated and idle money savings which are spread over the country have to be mobilized by the banks, insurance companies and different financial institutions and kept ready as investable fund.</sent>
				<sent id ="644">Transformation of money savings into capital goods: In the last stage of capital formation, the mobilized money savings have to be transformed into capital goods by means of investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="645">Capital can be formed if the mobilized savings are invested to produce capital goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="646">But, strong economic and social overheads and favorable environment for investment need to be created.</sent>
				<sent id ="647">In a capitalistic economy capital is formed in the way discussed above and as a result of this, economic development is accelerated.</sent>
				<sent id ="648">For the economic development of Bangladesh it is necessary to form sufficient amount of capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="649">But the rate of capital formation in this country is quite low as compared to other developed and developing countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="650">Low Per Capita income and poverty: The main factor of capital formation is the growth of savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="651">For the growth of savings sufficient income is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="652">But per capita income in Bangladesh is very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="653">At present it is about 520 U.S dollar.</sent>
				<sent id ="654">But the average per capita income of majority of the people of Bangladesh is the half of this amount.</sent>
				<sent id ="655">Because of this low income and pervasive poverty the rate of saving in this country is very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="656">So, the main problem of capital formation in our country is low income and low savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="657">Lack of willingness to save: The majority of the people of the country have less ability to save and their willingness to save is also low.</sent>
				<sent id ="658">Due to lack of foresight & education, low rate of interest, taxation system, fatalistic attitude, the tendency to save of the people in this country is less.</sent>
				<sent id ="659">Rather they like to spend their small surplus money in purchasing land, ornaments and in other unproductive purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="660">As a result real investment becomes very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="661">Difficulties in the mobilization of Savings: The small savings of our people are not available to be mobilized through the banking system.</sent>
				<sent id ="662">Because, there are not still sufficient branches of banks in the rural areas of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="663">The illiterate people have not yet developed the habit of depositing money in the banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="664">In view of the difficulties of mobilizing savings, investment is low and thereby capital formation is low in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="665">Lack of efficient entrepreneur: If the saved money is invested in factories, capital goods are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="666">For proper investment efficient entrepreneur is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="667">But there is the dearth of efficient entrepreneurs in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="668">As a result, capital formation is hindered.</sent>
				<sent id ="669">Lack of technical knowledge: The labourers of Bangladesh lack in modern and developed technical knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="670">The production techniques in this country are also old.</sent>
				<sent id ="671">For this reason, capital formation is hindered here.</sent>
				<sent id ="672">Low investment: For various reasons there are many obstacles in the way of investment in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="673">Because of low investment, production in the factories is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="674">Consequently the rate of capital formation is also low.</sent>
				<sent id ="675">Unfavorable political environment: For capital formation continuous investment in a favourable environment is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="676">In a developing country like Bangladesh there exists political and social unrest.</sent>
				<sent id ="677">For this reason investment in factories suffers and also the process of capital formation is constrained.</sent>
				<sent id ="678">Besides, due to scarcity of foreign aid and foreign investment, wastage of resources and underdeveloped infrastructure etc., capital formation in Bangladesh is hindered.</sent>
				<sent id ="679">Organization means an act of management in production by procuring, combining and coordinating land, labour and capital to produce something.</sent>
				<sent id ="680">As a matter of fact, discharging the responsibilities such as starting from production planning to policy making & decision taking, supervision of productive activity and risk taking etc. is called organization.</sent>
				<sent id ="681">Economist Mr. Haney says, Organization is a harmonious adjustment of specialized parts for the accomplishment of some common purpose or purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="682">Organization is such an active factor of production which makes other factors actives and productive in production.</sent>
				<sent id ="683">In the process of production anybody who performs acts of organization is called an organizer or entrepreneur.</sent>
				<sent id ="684">To produce something he conducts and supervises all activities of production including risk bearing by making production plans, combining land, labour and capital and coordinating the factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="685">The entrepreneur is to take the responsibilities and risks of all activities starting from the establishment of the plant or firm to the marketing of the produced goods in the end.</sent>
				<sent id ="686">The entrepreneur of a firm or business organization is its owner on the one hand and he is also the organizer and risk bearer on the other hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="687">In view of undertaking the supreme responsibilities of production the entrepreneur is called captain.</sent>
				<sent id ="688">The economist Marshall termed entrepreneur as the Captain of the Industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="689">Role Of An Organizer/Entrepreneur In The Process Of Production An organizer/entrepreneur plays an important role in the process of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="690">Modern system of production is complex and risky.</sent>
				<sent id ="691">The role of an entrepreneur is supreme in achieving the target of maximum profit as far as possible by running the production system properly and efficiently.</sent>
				<sent id ="692">The role of an entrepreneur in the modern production process is discussed below: Planning of setting up of a business Firm:</sent>
				<sent id ="693">The entrepreneur himself plans for the establishment of the business firm.</sent>
				<sent id ="694">The planning of the entrepreneur includes the undertaking of a feasibility study, the preparation of necessary documents for establishing the firm, and making provision of finances to meet initial expenditures etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="695">Formulation of production plan and determination of policy:</sent>
				<sent id ="696">The entrepreneur has to decide on different aspects of goods to be produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="697">The entrepreneur has to make plan and determine policy in respect of what is to be produced, how much to be produced, where to produce, what method will be applied in production and what will be the quality and price of the goods to be produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="698">Management of the Firm: After the establishment of the firm, the organizer performs the essential organizational functions such as he coordinates the work of different sections, appoints the workers to the suitable places according to their fitness, ensures the operation of machines etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="699">Production is possible only after the completion of these works.</sent>
				<sent id ="700">Payments to the factors of production: The organizer or the entrepreneur makes payments of prices for the land, labour and capital employed in the production.</sent>
				<sent id ="701">During the period of production he pays up the rents of land, the wages of labour and the interests of capital according to the contract.</sent>
				<sent id ="702">Risk bearing: To bear risk is one of the main responsibilities of the organizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="703">The Organizer produces particular goods on the basis of prior forecasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="704">But with the changes of time, demand for the concerned goods may suddenly fall.</sent>
				<sent id ="705">In such a situation the fear of incurring loss comes in place of profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="706">The entrepreneur has to bear this risk and uncertainty.</sent>
				<sent id ="707">Innovation in production: To increase the amount of profit the entrepreneur has to innovate and introduce new techniques and methods in production.</sent>
				<sent id ="708">To make the business or production survive he has to produce new goods, find out new sources of raw materials and widen markets for the goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="709">Marketing of the produced goods: Not only production, but the marketing of goods produced is also one of the main functions of an entrepreneur.</sent>
				<sent id ="710">He has to be engaged in the study of the consumers propensity to demand, storing of goods and in preserving them for proper marketing.</sent>
				<sent id ="711">Earning of profit: The main and the ultimate objective of an entrepreneur is to earn maximum profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="712">An entrepreneur acquires the right to get profit as his reward for taking initiative in production, running business and bearing all risks of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="713">He gets profit only after meeting all expenditures of production from the sale proceeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="714">The organizations where goods and services are produced or bought and sold are called business organizations or business firms.</sent>
				<sent id ="715">For example, all kinds of industries - small or big, other production units, business institutions including shops of all kinds, are generally called business organizations and business firms.</sent>
				<sent id ="716">In the past in almost all the countries of the world, the forms of business organizations were plain, simple and relatively small.</sent>
				<sent id ="717">At that time mainly the single ownership businesses were in vogue.</sent>
				<sent id ="718">But the economic system of modern world is much complex and economic activities are much wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="719">So in the modern times different types of business organization have developed in every country.</sent>
				<sent id ="720">Single Ownership Business: The oldest form of business organization is single ownership business.</sent>
				<sent id ="721">The organization where there is only one owner who procures capital by his own personal initiative and discharges all the responsibilities of the business including risk bearing, is called Single Ownership Business.</sent>
				<sent id ="722">In this form of businesses the owner's responsibilities are unlimited as he is alone to share the profit and the loss of the business.</sent>
				<sent id ="723">Though labourers and employees are employed in the business, the overall management, supervision and responsibilities rest on the owner alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="724">Generally, medium and small size businesses are based on single ownership.</sent>
				<sent id ="725">Some major advantages of single ownership business are simple organizational structure, small capital, quick decision making, flexibility in business, efficient management, maintaining secrecy etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="726">On the other hand, there are some disadvantages of such type of business.</sent>
				<sent id ="727">These are limited scale, unlimited liability, insufficient supervision, single handed risks, chance of wrong decision, lack of division of labour etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="728">In spite of some disadvantages this form of business has been easily acceptable to the majority of people since ancient time to date.</sent>
				<sent id ="729">Partnership Business: When a business organization is established and run by two or more persons, it is then called partnership business.</sent>
				<sent id ="730">In the contractual agreement of the partnership business, necessary issues like the assets and liabilities of the shareholders, collection of business funds, profit and loss, conditions for inclusion of new partners etc. are mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="731">This form of business organization should have at least 2 shareholders with maximum number of shareholders of The liabilities of the partners are unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="732">All the partners collectively or one or two partners on their behalf, can run the business.</sent>
				<sent id ="733">The notable advantages of partnership business are procurement of more funds, joint efforts, distribution of risks, joint decision making, introduction of division of labour, benefits of loans etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="734">On the other hand, the main disadvantages of such form of business are unlimited liabilities of individual partner, lack of consensus, unwillingness in risky investments, delay in taking decision, difficulties in parting with the business etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="735">Joint Stock Company: A form of business organization, when established and run by many people, is called Joint Stock Company.</sent>
				<sent id ="736">Initially a few persons make a plan to form a joint stock company.</sent>
				<sent id ="737">In the plan the name of the company, its objectives, the amount of capital etc. are mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="738">After obtaining approval from the government, it earns the status of a legal separate organization.</sent>
				<sent id ="739">Then, through the sale of shares among the members of public and entrepreneurs, its capital is accumulated.</sent>
				<sent id ="740">Those who buy shares become the partners or owners of this business.</sent>
				<sent id ="741">Since there are a large number of shareholders in this business, the responsibility of its management rests with a Board of Directors.</sent>
				<sent id ="742">In this form of business the liability of every shareholder is limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="743">The profit of the business is distributed among the shareholders.</sent>
				<sent id ="744">If necessary, this short of business can procure funds from the institutions like Banks, Insurance Companies etc. within Bangladesh and also by borrowing from the international organizations.</sent>
				<sent id ="745">Joint Stock Company is one of the most important forms of business organization in the modern world.</sent>
				<sent id ="746">Now days almost all large scale production firms or large scale business firms run as Joint Stock Companies.</sent>
				<sent id ="747">The main advantages of this form of business are large scale production, limited liabilities of the share holders, efficient management, scope for expansion of business, distribution of risks, advantages of developed technology and wide division of labour etc. Besides, the confidence of the people in these big and legal institutions is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="748">In spite of these advantages, the joint stock business has some disadvantages.</sent>
				<sent id ="749">These are the structural complexity, misuse of power in managing the business, scope of corruption and nepotism, complexity in decision making, chance of delay, chance of deterioration in labour-management relation etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="750">If precautionary measures and appropriate public policy are adopted, the disadvantages of such organization can be minimized.</sent>
				<sent id ="751">In fact, in modern times such large scale businesses are needed more for economic development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="752">Co-operative Business: If a number of assetless persons voluntarily and collectively,form a business organization on the basis of equal rights and responsibilities, it is called co-operative business.</sent>
				<sent id ="753">The principles of co-operative business are unity, discipline, sincerity and mutual co-operation.</sent>
				<sent id ="754">These form the foundation of co-operative business.</sent>
				<sent id ="755">In this business the members themselves take the initiative of business, supply capital, manage the business and take all sorts of risks.</sent>
				<sent id ="756">The members, being the owners of this business, enjoy its profit in proportion to their respective shares.</sent>
				<sent id ="757">Co-operative business is found in agricultural farming, cottage industries, grocery of consumables etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="758">Co-operative business organizations are generally small in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="759">Its notable advantages are the absence of intermediaries and labour problems, supply of commodity at a lower price, increase of income of lower income-group, development of moral awareness, austerity and development of outlook for self- reliance etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="760">Some problems of co-operative business are also noticed side by side.</sent>
				<sent id ="761">These are the non-abiding by the principles of cooperative, shortage of capital, lack of consensus, inefficient management and lack of incentives etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="762">In a capital- poor country like Bangladesh there is the necessity of co-operatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="763">But in reality it is found that due to lack of teaching of co-operatives and awareness there is no expansion of co-operative business in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="764">But the co-operative businesses which exist only in agriculture and other few areas are facing problems due to various reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="765">For the expansion of co-operative business in this country, co-operative movement and the spread of education are indispensable.</sent>
				<sent id ="766">State Enterprise: Those business organizations which are directly organized by the government or brought under the control of the government through nationalization are called state enterprises.</sent>
				<sent id ="767">These businesses are controlled and managed by the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="768">Generally the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="769">with its own initiative forms and runs those businesses which are necessary for the welfare of the people and the security of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="770">If these are in the private sector, then public interest may suffer.</sent>
				<sent id ="771">The railways, roads, post and telegraph, television, telephone water and electricity supply, arms and ammunition factory etc. are the government organizations or state enterprises in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="772">In recent times the state enterprise is an important business institution.</sent>
				<sent id ="773">There are certain specific advantages of this sort of business.</sent>
				<sent id ="774">For example, these state enterprises can mobilize sufficient capital and can supply goods and services to the people at fair prices.</sent>
				<sent id ="775">Heavy and basic industries can be established through this sort of business organization.</sent>
				<sent id ="776">Since state enterprise is generally of large scale, it enjoys the advantages of internal economies of scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="777">Through this business organization, planned development of the country is possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="778">With the advantages of state enterprise, there are some disadvantages too.</sent>
				<sent id ="779">If industries are established by the government, scope for private and individual initiative becomes limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="780">Many times corruption and nepotism make their room in many cases due to the presence of bureaucratic practices in the state enterprises.</sent>
				<sent id ="781">Because of excess number of labourers and employees, sometimes the cost of the business increases and that becomes non-profitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="782">Due to absence of competition some times, it turns into a monopoly business.</sent>
				<sent id ="783">In that case, cost of goods and services increases and quality falls.</sent>
				<sent id ="784">Consequently the customers suffer.</sent>
				<sent id ="785">The state enterprises can turn into profitable organizations if their defects are removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="786">Then this kind of business organization can play effective role in the economic development of the country and protecting the interest of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="787">In Bangladesh there are various types of public or state enterprises.</sent>
				<sent id ="788">Many mills and factories are also operating under government initiative and management.</sent>
				<sent id ="789">For the industrial development of the country i.e. for the overall economic development of the country these public enterprises need to be built up as defects-free, efficient and profitable concerns.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
