<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-eco-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.849</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">180</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2806</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">797</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t53">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In the ordinary sense market means a particular place in which buyers and sellers buy and sell their goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">But in economics, the meaning of market is different.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Market here means the sale of goods at a price determined by the buyer and the seller after a good bargain; such as jute market, gold market, wheat market etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Jute market means not a particular place in which jute is sold; rather it is the sale and purchase of jute scattered at different places at a price reached by buyers and sellers after a good bargain.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Eminent economist Cournot says, Economists understand by the term market not any particular market place in which things are bought and sold but the whole of any region in which buyers and sellers are in such free intercourse with one another that the price of the same goods tends to equality easily and quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Market has a few elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Markets can be divided into a number of classes depending on the region, time span and the nature of competition between buyers and sellers.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">A market may be local, national and international based on the region or area.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">A market may be very short, short, long term and very long term based on time span.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Again a market may be fully competitive or partially competitive based on the intensity of competition between buyers and sellers.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Markets can be divided in three categories based on region or area; Local market:</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The sale and purchase of which goods are limited within a particular area is called local market.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">For example, fish, meat, vegetables, milk etc are bought and sold in a particular area.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">So it is called local market.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Generally fast perishable and not easily transportable goods are limited within a particular area.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Usually in such a market both demand and production of goods are low.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">At present with the development of preservation and transportation, the market of perishable goods has crossed the limits of local market and expanded into international market.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">National market: The sale and purchase of goods covering the whole of the country is called national market.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">For example, rice, cloth, paper, medicine etc can be transported to different parts of the country and they are bought and sold everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">So the market of these goods is national.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">In this market both demand and production of goods is high.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">International market: The market of the goods whose demand, sale and purchase are expensive all over the world is called international market.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">For example, gold, jute, cotton, tea etc have world wide transaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">So they have international market.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In this market those goods have world wide demand, so they are produced in huge quantity.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Classification of Market Based on Time-period : Markets can be divided in several categories depending on time-span; Very short period market:</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The market that exists for only a few hours or a few days is called very short term market.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The duration of this market is so short that the supply of goods can neither be increased nor decreased as necessary during this time.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Here the demand of goods determines the price.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Generally fish, vegetables, milk etc have a very short term market.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Short period market: The market that exists for few weeks or a few months is called short term market.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">In this market a change in the demand of goods influences its supply instantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Here the supply cannot be increased or decreased according to demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The price in this market is influenced more by demand than supply.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Napkin, lungi, saree, stationery goods etc have such short term market.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Long period market: The market that exists for several years is called long term market.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Usually supply in this market can be changed fully according to demand i,e, supply can be coordinated with demand as and when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Watch, motor car, computer, mill-made cloth etc have long term market.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Very long period market: The market that exists for a very long time and in which far reaching changes take place is called very long term market.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">In this market buyers taste, habit, number etc may be fundamentally changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">As a result there is a possibility of wide change in demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">This kind of market can exist for 15 - 20 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Aeroplane, heavy machinery etc have very long term market.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Markets can be classified into several categories basing on the nature of sellers competition.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Perfect competitive market: The market in which there is a good number of buyers and sellers, 100% homogeneous goods are bought and sold, both buyers and sellers have full knowledge of the market situation and only one price exists is called perfect competitive market.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Gold and share markets are perfect competitive market.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Imperfect competitive market: The market in which the number of sellers is small, saleable goods, though homogeneous, have qualitatively different and the sellers can more or less influence the price is called imperfect competitive market.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">It is to be noted that the number of buyers may sometime be small.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Monopoly market: The market in which there is only one seller is called monopoly market.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">In this market one commodity cannot be supplemented by another.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">It means, the saleable item has actually no substitute.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Here the seller controls the price and the demand of his commodity at his will.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">In Bangladesh power market is an example of monopoly market.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Duopoly market: The market in which there are two sellers is called duopoly.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Oligopoly market: The market in which there are only a few sellers is called oligopoly.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">In our country soap and toothpaste markets are examples of oligopoly.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Monopolistic competitive market: The market in which a good number of sellers sell, if not exactly the same but almost homogeneous goods is called monopolistic competitive market.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">In such a market every seller does not sell the same goods, yet they can more or less influence the price of their own merchandise.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The expanse of market of every commodity is not the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The market of commodities is small; viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">fish, fruit etc. Again some commodities have free market both at home and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The market of commodities having good market both at home and abroad is called expanded market.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Those commodities, usually, have good demand; hence they are bought and sold almost everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Gold, medicine, cloth, food, books etc have wide market.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">When the market of a particular commodity covers wide area, it is called wide market.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Such expansion of the market depends on many conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">They are described below: High demand: The market of a commodity depends on its demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The commodity with high demand gets an expanded market.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">On the other hand a commodity with low demand gets a narrow/small market.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Gold, jute, cotton, cloth etc have high demand, so they have an expanded market.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Huge supply: The supply of a commodity needs to be adequate if it has to have a wide market.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">For example, the supply of American wheat is huge.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">So it has a world wide market.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">On the other hand, our local food grains have limited supply; so their market is limited within the country itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Duration: Durable goods have wide market.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">For example, gold, silver etc are durable; so they have a wide market.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Again the market of temporary and perishable goods is small; for example, vegetable market.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Transportability: The commodities of less weight and small volume but high value can be transported far easily and cheaply.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">They have an expanded market.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Gold, silver etc can be transported easily and cheaply; so their market is wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But brick market is not wide because brick cannot be so easily and cheaply transported.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Advantage of classifying and sampling: The commodities which can be classified into different categories and the sample of each category can be sent to far-off buyers get a wide market.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">For example jute can be classified into 1st, 2nd and 3rd grade and the sample of each grade can be sent to far-off buyers; so jute has a wide market.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">On the other hand lack of classifying and sampling makes a market smaller; such as meat market.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Developed transport and communication system: A market can be wide if commodities can be sent to far-off places through developed transport and communication system.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Justifiably, lack of developed transport and communication system makes a market narrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Peace and security: Goods can be transported safely and unhindered if there is peace and security in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Market expands in this situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">On the other hand market becomes narrow if peace and security is disturbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Liberal trade policy: Free and liberal trade policy of the government helps to widen the market of a product.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">On the contrary a market becomes narrow when embargos and barriers are put on trade and commerce.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Easy availability of foreign exchange and credit: Easy availability of foreign exchange and credit increases the volume of transaction both in national and international markets.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">As a result the market becomes wide; otherwise the market shrinks.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Publicity: In the present time the width of a market depends on the publicity of a product.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Publicity through radio, television, newspapers, local and international trade fairs increases its demand and as a result, its market widens.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">A consumer buys a product at a certain price according to his need.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">How price is determined is an important subject of economics.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The price of a product is determined neither on the decision nor on the understanding between the buyer and the seller.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Actually the price of each product is determined by the market force.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The demand and supply of a product plays the main role in market force to determine the price.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The price of a product is determined by the mutual interaction between its demand and supply.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Usually, a product has a group of buyers and sellers in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The demand for the product comes from the buyer.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The sum-total of buyers demand is called total demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">On the other hand, the supply of the product comes from the sellers.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The sum-total of supply by the sellers is called total supply.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In the market, an interaction goes on between total demand and total supply of a product at different prices.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Price rises when the demand is higher than supply.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Again price falls when demand is lower than supply.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Then there comes such a stage when total demand and total supply at a certain price meet at a point.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This is the determined price of the product.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">This price does not tend to change.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">This is called the equilibrium price and it becomes stable in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The chart shows that at a price of 4 Tk or 5 Tk the total supply of a product is greater than the total demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In this situation sellers reduce the price to sell out unsold products.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Again total demand of a product at a price of 1 Tk or 2 Tk is greater than the total supply.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">In such case the demand of the buyers remains unfulfilled due to shortage of supply; so they want to buy the product even at high price.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Hence the price tends to rise.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Total demand and total supply come to an equilibrium and the price tends neither to rise nor to fall when it is Tk 3 per unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">So Tk 3 is the determined price.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The mechanism of price determination can be shown by a diagram also.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">In the graph below, DD is the demand line and SS is the supply line.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Suppose in the first stage price is 5 Tk .</sent>
				<sent id ="124">At this price the quantity of demand and supply is 100 and 500 units respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Now as supply is much higher than demand, price will fall.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">This remains even if price is 4 Tk, i,e, price will keep falling.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Again suppose price is 1 Tk .</sent>
				<sent id ="128">At this price demand and supply is 500 and 100 units respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Here demand is much higher than supply; so price will rise.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">But when price is 3 Tk , the quantity of demand and supply is equal to each other, i,e, both are 300 units.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">This is equilibrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">At this stage price will neither rise nor fall.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">So 3 Tk is the determined or equilibrium price.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Thus the price of a product is determined at the point of equilibrium between demand and supply.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Market system: The process through which a product reaches from the production centre to the ultimate consumer is called market system.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">In Bangladesh, a product passes through different stages on to the consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Those stages are of procurement/collection of the product after production, classification, storage and preservation, transportation, finance, risk-bearing, advertisement, collecting market related information and data, sale etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">A product reaches the consumer after those works are properly done.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">In Bangladesh, the market system of both agricultural and industrial products is underdeveloped and defective.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The market of agricultural products is more problematic and faulty than that of industrial products.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The flaws in the market system of both agricultural and industrial products are explained below: Low quality product: The quality of most agricultural product of Bangladesh is very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Low quality seeds, lack of fertilizer and pesticides, natural calamities etc are the main cause of the low quality of products.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">As a result, farmers have to sell their products at a low price.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Excepting a few, the quality of industrial products also is pretty low.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Substandard raw materials, unskilled industrial labour, scarcity of energy, frequent power failure, etc are the main causes of low quality of industrial products.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">As a result producers have to accept a price lower than their expectation.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Lack of classification of products: Our agricultural products are not classified as per their quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Very often good quality products get mixed with bad quality products.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">As a result the price of good quality products also falls.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Sometimes low quality agricultural products are sold at a high price for lack of proper classification.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Products of small and cottage industries also are not properly classified as per their quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Hosiery goods, lungi, napkin, edible oil, ghee, flour etc are not properly classified as per their intrinsic quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Though products of big industries are classified as per quality, common consumers often remain ignorant of them for want of proper publicity.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Backward transportation and communication system: In Bangladesh, there is scarcity of adequate roads and railways to connect the villages with different markets.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Waterways are not always navigable either.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Moreover the means of communication such as telephone, telegraph etc are not very adequate.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">For these reasons most farmers sell out their products at a low price even at their doorsteps.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Owing to backward transport and communication system, industrial products also do not reach the remote areas of the country properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">As the railway has not developed as expected, transportation by road is very costly.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">This raises the price of the product on the one hand and the price also varies in different markets on the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Existence of middlemen: At different stages of marketing of the agricultural products, the existence of middlemen such as brokers, farhias, arhatdars, hoarders etc is very conspicuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">They purchase the agricultural products from the farmers at a low price and sell them at a high price.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Thus they make good profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Whereas the producers are deprived of the due price they deserve.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Industrial products also change many hands before reaching the ultimate consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Big whole sellers purchase those products from factory godowns.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Later those products reach the retailers through many petty whole sellers.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Thus the price of industrial products rises because of their changing hands a number of times.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Lack of storage and preservation: There is lack of storage and preservation facilities in the remote area of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">As a result farmers have to sell out their products at a low price immediately after harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The intrinsic quality of the products also decreases for want of storage and preservation facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Even in the city areas, industrial products cannot be stored due to the scarcity of necessary godowns.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Petty whole sellers have to carry the products frequently from the production centres and this added transportation cost raises the price of the product.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Lack of finance in marketing: farmers need an interim finance for reaching their products to the consumers from the field of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">This is especially because they are usually very poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Small retailers need financing for marketing industrial products.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">But no such institution has yet grown up in the country to provide an interim finance.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Defective weighing and measuring equipments: In the rural areas of Bangladesh, there are no weights and measures of common standard in use.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Seer, kg, kanchi, paki etc- different weights and measures are prevalent in different areas of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Besides, seer and kg have random uses.Due to the variation of weights and measures as well as the use of faulty weighing scales, everybody is being a loser.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
