<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-eco-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.886</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">353</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5607</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1399</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t54">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In ancient times there was no money or single medium of exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">At that time if any one felt the need for a goods, he used to collect it in exchange of his goods from others.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">For example, a farmer used to collect clothes from a weaver in exchange of his paddy and a fisherman used to collect pots and pan from a potter in exchange of his fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Thus people used to satisfy their mutual wants by direct exchange of their goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">This system of exchange of one goods for another is called barter system.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Even now such a barter system exists in case of some goods in some rural areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">There are three conditions of barter system.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">One must have the desire for another's goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">One must be willing to exchange one's own goods for one's desired goods from another.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The utility of the desired goods must be more than that of the goods one surrenders.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">There are some difficulties of barter system.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">They are described below: Lack of double coincidence of wants:</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The greatest difficulty of barter system is the lack of double coincidence of wants of the people who are parties to exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">For example, a farmer wants cloth in exchange of his paddy; but the weaver does not need paddy.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">In such a situation no exchange is possible between paddy and cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In that case the farmer has to find out a person who is willing to accept paddy for cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">And this is a difficult and time consuming matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Lack of divisibility of goods: There are many goods which cannot be divided into parts and as such they cannot be exchanged partly.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">For example a man has a cow and he needs a pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The price of a cow is much higher than that of a pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">In this situation it is not possible to divide the cow into many pieces to exchange one for a pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">In such case no barter is possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Difficulty in measuring value: Under barter system there is no common standard of measuring the value of different goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">It is very difficult to determine how much paddy can be exchanged for how much potato or how much fish for one cow without knowing the prices of those goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In this system, therefore, acts of exchange of goods face problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Difficulty in savings: Under barter system the value of goods cannot be saved as their prices are unknown.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">For savings, goods, crops etc. have to be stored up.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">But most of the goods perish or their quality falls if stored for long.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">This is why savings in terms of goods is not possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">As a result people cannot get the benefit of savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Difficulty in repaying loan: Under barter system, loans have to be received and repaid in terms of goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">But at the time of repayment of loan it may not be possible for the borrower to repay exactly the same kind of goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Repayment of loan in terms of goods renders either the creditor or the borrower to loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Difficulty in transferring value: As there is no money in the barter system, value transfer becomes difficult.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Because, for value transfer, the transportation of goods and properties from one place to another is troublesome and in many cases impossible.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">As there is no facility for value transfer, the development of economic activities suffers.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The above mentioned difficulties of the barter system create problems for free transaction, trade and commerce in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">So, in course of time this system becomes outdated and money, as a medium of exchange, came into circulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Money is a medium of exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The thing by which people buy or sell goods and by which price of goods is determined and all sorts of payments and receipts are settled is called money.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Money also serves as a store of value.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The main characteristic of money is its general acceptability to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">R.P.Kent says that money is such a thing which is commonly used as a medium of exchange or a measure of value.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">According to Economist Crowther, that which is acceptable to all as a medium of exchange, a measure of value and acts as means of saving is called money.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">G.D.H.Cole says, money is such a thing which everybody uses to settle payments and receipts and repay loans.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">So the thing which is introduced by the government and generally accepted to be used as a medium of exchange, a means of lending and borrowings, a measure and store of value is called money.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Medium of exchange: The first and main function of money is to settle transaction as a medium of exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">As it is acceptable to all, we can buy or sell any commodity any time with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The introduction of money has made exchange activities easier and convenient.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Measure of value: The value of all commodities can be measured by money.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Money functions as a measure of value just as kilogram for weight and metre for length.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">We consider the price of a thing by expressing it in the figures of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">For example, a man buys a thing for Tk:5.Here Tk:5.00 is the measure of value of that thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">A standard of deferred payment: Man's future receipts and payments are accounted for in the figures of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Lending and borrowing can easily be done through money which is difficult in barter system.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Store of value : Money functions as a store of value.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Man wants to save a portion of his income for the future.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">It is not possible to save or store commodities for this purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">But money is both safe and convenient for the purpose of saving.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">This is why man sells out his surplus merchandize to save that in the form of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Value transfer: As a result of the circulation of money, man collects the sale proceeds of his merchandise or property in the form of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He can easily buy things or property anywhere else with that money.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Thus money functions as a medium of value transfer.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Basis of credit: At present most business transactions are done through cheques, bank drafts, bills of exchange etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Banks issue these instruments of credit on the basis of cash deposited with the bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Money therefore is regarded as the basis of credit.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Measure of liquidity: Money is the most liquid asset.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">We can buy anything any time with money.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Means of increasing satisfaction: The main objective of a consumer is to get maximum satisfaction from the purchase of a commodity.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">For this purpose he spends his money so as the utility gained from the commodity is equal to its price.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Money thus spent can offer a consumer the opportunity to get maximum satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Symbol of social status: The status of people in the society is determined by money power.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Generally, the more the money one has the more the influence and power one commands in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">These functions of money have made the system of exchange easy and dynamic.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">As a result, the path of economic development of the society has become smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">How the Introduction of Money Removed the Difficulties of Barter System: Barter system was prevalent for long before the invention of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The inherent flaws of barter system made business transactions, trade and commerce inconvenient.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Under barter system, acts of exchange of goods were hampered due to lack of double coincidence of wants of the persons willing to make exchanges.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">But that problem has been solved as any goods can be bought and sold with money.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">With the use of money we do not need to divide a commodity into many parts for exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Small or large, anything can be bought or sold for a certain sum of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">In barter system there was problem in the determination of prices of goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">But at present the value of any goods can be expressed in terms of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">In barter system, it was not possible to store goods for savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">But now the value of any goods can be easily saved in the form of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">For this reason one does not have the risk of the loss of value of savings in terms of goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">With the introduction of money both receipt and repayment of loan have become easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Loan is received in the form of money in place of goods and it is repaid also in terms of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">In barter system, goods had to be transported from one place to another to transfer the value of the goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">That was both costly and troublesome.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">But with the introduction of money, the value of goods and property can be transferred in the form of money anywhere easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Thus we see that the difficulties of barter system have been removed with the introduction of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">As a result the system of transactions has become easy and safe and man's economic life has become dynamic.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">It is, therefore, said that in the history of human civilization the invention of money is an epoch making event like that of fire and wheel.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Money is classified from different points of view.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Nominal money and real money: From the viewpoint of use, money can be divided into two types: nominal and real money.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The type of money by which prices are determined, transactions are accounted and receipts and payments are settled is called nominal money.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Nominal money means, in fact, the name of the money in circulation in a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">For example, in Bangladesh, account is maintained in Taka; so Taka is the nominal money of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Pound Sterling of England, Dollar of the USA, Rouble of Russia, Yen of Japan, and Rupee of India are nominal money.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">On the other hand, the money by which people conduct their daily transactions and keep their savings is called real money.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">In Bangladesh, 1.00, 2.00, 5.00, 10.00, 20.00, 50.100.00,</sent>
				<sent id ="103">taka notes and metal coins of paisa 25 &50 and taka 1.00,2.00</sent>
				<sent id ="104">and 5.00 are real money.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Fiat money and optional money: From the view point of obligatory acceptance, money can be divided into two classes: fiat money or legal tender and optional money.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The money having the protection of government law and obligatorily acceptable to all is called fiat money.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">On the other hand, the money which people cannot be compelled to accept but can use it as medium of exchange is called optional money.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">People may or may not accept this money.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Cheques, bank drafts, prize bond etc are optional money.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">These can also be called near money.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Unlimited legal tender and limited legal tender: From the view point of acceptability, money can be divided into two classes: unlimited legal tender and limited legal tender.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The money through which any amount of transaction can be done is called unlimited legal tender.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">5.00, 10.00, 50.00, 100.00 and 500.00</sent>
				<sent id ="114">taka notes are unlimited legal tender.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Any amount of debt can be settled with any one of the above notes and the creditor is legally bound to accept it.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">On the other hand, the money through which transaction can be done upto a certain limit, and the receiver cannot be legally made to accept it beyond that limit is called limited legal tender.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">People may or may not accept the money at will.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">In Bangladesh, 25 and 50 paisa, 1.00,2.00</sent>
				<sent id ="119">and 5.00 metal coins are limited legal tender.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Representative money and token money: from the point of intrinsic value metal coins can be divided into two classes: representative money and token money.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The money whose face value and intrinsic value are equal is called representative money.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">If this money is melted and sold as metal, its value stands equal to its face value.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Usually this kind of money runs as unlimited legal tender in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">1.00 taka coins with the King of England's crown embossed in it, was prevalent as representative money in India before 1941.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">On the other hand, the money whose face value is higher than its intrinsic value is called token money.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">In Bangladesh, 50, 25 and 10 paisa, 1.00 and 5.00 coins are token money.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Such money fetches less than its intrinsic value if sold as metal after melting.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Metal coins and paper notes: From the point of minting materials, money can be divided into two classes: metal coin and paper notes.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Real money made of metal pieces is called metal coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">In Bangladesh, 5.00, 1.00,2.00</sent>
				<sent id ="131">taka and 25, 50 paisa coins are metal coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">On the other hand, money minted on paper is called paper notes.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Paper notes have no intrinsic value.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Its face value indicates its real value.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The government or the central bank of the country introduces this money in the market with different face value minting on paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">1.00, 2.00, 5.10.00,</sent>
				<sent id ="137">20.00, 50.00, 100.00, 500.1000.00</sent>
				<sent id ="138">taka of Bangladesh are paper notes.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Paper notes are now being widely used all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Convertible money and non-convertible money: Paper notes can be divided into two classes: convertible money and non-convertible money.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The paper notes against which the government is bound to give of gold, silver or foreign exchange of equal value on demand is called convertible money.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">In Bangladesh, 5.00, 10.00, 50.00, 100.00 and 500.00,</sent>
				<sent id ="143">1000.00 taka notes are convertible paper money.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">On the other hand, the money against which the government is not legally bound to give gold, silver or foreign exchange of equal value on demand is called non- convertible paper money.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">This kind of paper money prevails in the market only on government decree.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Bangladesh 1.00 and 2.00 taka notes are non-convertible paper money.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">It is also called money by order.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Engaged in money and credit business, bank is such an institution that accepts the deposits of people's savings or surplus money and lend the same to people engaged in trade and commerce and production activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In conducting this business a bank does not invest its own money or capital;</sent>
				<sent id ="150">they lend the money accepted as deposits from other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This is why bank is said to be dealing in credit.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The interest bank pays on deposits is always less than the interest on the loan it grants to its clients.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The difference between the two rates is regarded as bank's profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Banking business thrives on this profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Banks may be classified into several categories according to their nature of business and difference of their objectives; such as central bank, commercial bank, agricultural bank, savings bank, national bank, cooperative bank, international bank, Islami bank etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Central bank: The bank which, under full or partial control and ownership of the government, controls money, credit and banking system of the country is called central bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The main function of this bank is to introduce money and control credit in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Besides, central bank performs various acts such as the banker of banks, banker and advisor of the government and keeper of stability of internal and external value of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Bangladesh bank and Bank of England are the central banks of Bangladesh and England respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Commercial bank: The bank which accepts the deposit of people's savings and surplus money and lends the money on short term credit to industrialists and entrepreneurs is called commercial bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">In brief this bank is also called the short term dealer in credit.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">A commercial bank earns profit by giving interest on deposits at a low rate and realizing interest on loans at a high rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Sonali, Janata, Agrani, Rupali, Uttara, Pubali, National bank Limited etc banks are commercial banks of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Agricultural bank: The bank which gives credit of different terms to farmers for the development of agriculture is called agricultural bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">This bank gives short term credit to farmers to buy seeds and fertilizers etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Besides this, it gives medium term credit for purchasing cattle and small agricultural tools etc and long term credit for purchasing valuable agricultural machinery for sustainable development of agricultural land.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">In our country, Bangladesh Krishi Bank is this type of bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Industrial bank: The bank which gives credit for setting up new industries or extension and renovation of old ones is called industrial bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">This bank gives both short term and long term credit for industrial development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Bangladesh Shilpa Bank is an industrial bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Exchange bank: The bank which converts one currency into another is called exchange bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">This bank also purchases foreign bills of exchange or hundi.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">It acts as an intermediary in international transactions.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Lloyd's Bank, Bank of China, Standard Chartered Bank etc are exchange banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Savings bank: The bank which inspires people to make savings and collects different term deposits from them at high interest rates is called savings bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">There is no such bank in Bangladesh; but Postal Savings Bank is more or less this type of bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Local bank: Different investment institutions established on local basis is called local bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">These banks do not accept deposits from people but give loans only on high rates of interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Mahajans, banias, shahukars etc can be called this type of bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Co-operative bank: The bank set up and run on the basis of the principles of co- peratives is called co-operative bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">This bank gives credit on low interest rates to its members.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Besides this, it gives credit to other co-operative institutions and small traders also.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Bangladesh Samabaya Bank is an example of co-operative bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Islami bank: The bank which is based on Islami shariat and functions as per Islami rules and regulations is called Islami Bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">As Islam prohibits interest, its business is interest free.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">It collects deposits from its clients to invest in trade and commerce and also in industrial enterprises and pays them a part of the profit it thus earns.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">And if loss is incurred, it shares that with the depositors.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">It runs its banking business on this principle.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Islami Bank Bangladesh Ltd., Al-Baraka Bank Ltd.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Etc are Islami banks in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">At present Islami bank has been set up in as many as 20 countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">International bank: The bank which has been established to help the developing countries in their economic development is called international bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The main functions of this bank are to expand international trade, increasing private investment in the field of production in different countries of the world and remove deficit of different countries in international transactions.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">World Bank, International Monetary Fund etc are this type of banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The bank which introduces currency, controls credit and other financial organizations and also functions as financial representative and advisor to the government is called central bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Under the law of Bank of International Settlement, central bank is defined as The bank which bears the responsibility of controlling the quantity of money and the volume of credit in a country is called central bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Unlike other banks, central bank does not have profit making as its sole objective; rather its main objectives are to keep the economic stability of the country and the welfare of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Placing itself at the peak of the whole banking system, it functions as the guardian of all the financial institutions of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">There is a central bank in every country of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The name of the central bank of Bangladesh is Bangladesh Bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Other examples are England's Bank of England, USA's Federal Reserve System, India's Reserve Bank of India and France's Banque De France.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">1.Issuing of notes: At present in all the countries, it is central bank alone that issues notes and coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">In Bangladesh, this responsibility has been put on Bangladesh Bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Bangladesh Bank maintains 30% reserve of foreign currency for issuing paper notes.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">In other countries also, there is a rule of maintaining such reserve.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Central bank regulates the issue of paper notes to control its supply and value.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Bank of the government: Central bank is a public institution.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">This bank functions as the custodian of public funds and keeps account of the internal and foreign debts of the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It gives loan to the government when needed and acts as the financial advisor to the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">In our country Bangladesh Bank performs the responsibility as the banker of the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Banker of other banks: Commercial banks maintain a certain percentage of the money they receive from the people as deposits.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">For example, according to banking law every scheduled bank of the country has to maintain a reserve of 5% of their total current and fixed deposits with Bangladesh Bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Central bank directs and controls other banks through various instructions and advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Lender of the last resort: Commercial banks may need more money at times for giving more credit to the people or some other reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">In such a critical situation, commercial banks have to approach the central bank if they fail to manage fund from other sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Central bank saves them from financial crisis by extending credit to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">This is why central bank is called the lender of the last resort.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Maintaining rate of exchange: Central bank determines and controls the rate of exchange of local currency with foreign currency.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Central bank takes steps so that this rate of exchange remains stable for the interest of trade and commerce.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Besides this, it buys and sells gold and foreign currency on behalf of the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Clearing house: Because of transactions in trade and commerce, cheques are traded between different commercial banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">This results into inter-bank transactions.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Central bank settles these transactions from the reserve of the concerned commercial bank maintained with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">For this reason central bank is called the clearing house of other banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Credit control: One of the main functions of the central bank is credit control.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">If commercial banks grant more credit than necessary, it may create inflation through the supply of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">In that case central bank shrinks the volume of credit through different measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Again the central bank can increase the power of commercial banks to sanction more credit if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Besides this, in a developing country like Bangladesh, central bank does some development activities also.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">For example central bank helps the government in making development plans and budget, provides economic information and condition of the country through the press, plays active role in the development of agriculture and industry, maintains stability of price level and develops the banking system of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">This bank also plays direct role in formulating the import and export policy of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The bank which keeps people's savings as deposits and lends money to the industrial and commercial institutions on short term basis is called commercial bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The main objective of commercial bank is earning profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Bank pays interest at a low rate against the deposits.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">On the other hand it realizes interest at a high rate from the borrowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The difference of the two rates is bank's profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Though bank has a portion of its own money, the lion's share of bank's fund comes from the depositors.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Bank is liable to return the money to the depositors on demand, so it gives only short term loan.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">This is why commercial banks are called the dealers in short term credit.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Sonali Bank, Janata Bank, Agrani Bank, Rupali Bank, National Bank Limited,City Bank Limited etc are some of the commercial banks of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The role of commercial banks in the field of trade and commerce and production is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Accept deposits: One of the main functions of commercial banks is to accept people's savings as deposits.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Deposit is of three kinds: current account, savings account and fixed or term account.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">A current deposit can be withdrawn at any time.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">No interest is paid on this account.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">A savings deposit can usually be withdrawn twice a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Bank pays some interest on such accounts.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Money in a fixed deposit has to be kept in the account for a fixed term.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">This account bears interest at a higher rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Giving loans: The second main function of commercial bank is giving loans.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The money deposited by the depositors is given as credit to traders.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Depositors can withdraw their money at any time.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">That is why commercial banks keep adequate funds to meet the demand of the depositors and lend the rest of the fund for giving short term credit.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Commercial banks of our country give loan to different businesses, industries, pisciculture, house building etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Creating medium of exchange: At present the power of introducing bank notes lies only with the central bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">But commercial banks issue cheques, bank drafts, travellers cheques etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">These credit instruments act as medium of exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">As a result, trade and commerce and other transactions become dynamic.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">In developed countries most transactions are done through these media of exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Helping in the domestic and international trade: Commercial banks supply money to domestic and international trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Bank buys and sells foreign currency.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">In many cases transaction of goods is done and debt between buyers and sellers settled through banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">These activities help spread trade and commerce in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Discount of bills of exchange: At present many business transactions are done through bills of exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">A commercial bank encashes the bill of exchange at a discount if the holder of the bill needs cash before the maturity of the bill.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">For this the bank deducts a certain sum of money from the bill amount as interest on the advance payment which is called discounting of the bill of exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">As a result, monetary transactions become easy and safe and trade and commerce becomes dynamic.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Transfer of money: Commercial banks transfer money from one place to another safely and easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">They transfer money of their clients through cheques, bank drafts, pay orders, travellers cheques, telegraphic transfer (TT) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Increase savings: Small savings of the people are deposited with commercial banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Bank helps in the growth of capital by giving this money through credit to trade and production.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">As a result savings increases and development expedited in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">People want to deposit their savings with a bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">For this, they have to open an account with a bank of their choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Money deposited in these accounts is called bank deposits.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">The rules of opening different kinds of account are more or less the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Suppose a person wishes to open a savings account with a branch of Agrani Bank in his home town.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">First he has to collect an account opening application form from that branch and fill in it with necessary information.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Now the new account opener needs the signature on his application form of such a person as has an account with that branch.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Two passport size photographs, duly attested, of the new account opener have to be attached with the application form.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">He has to deposit a minimum Tk:100.00 as initial deposit with the application form.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Then the account holder is given an account number.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">The account holder subsequently deposits and withdraws money on this particular account number.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">With the opening of an account the account holder gets a cheque book, a deposit book and a pass book.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Through the deposit book he can deposit cash, cheque, bank drafts etc of any amount with the bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Likewise, with the cheque book, he can withdraw money from his account.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Money can be withdrawn from current account as many times as necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Money can be withdrawn from savings account usually twice a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Money deposited in a fixed deposit account can be withdrawn usually after the term of the deposit; because this type of account bears more interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">The passbook is for date wise entries of all deposits and withdrawals in details.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">At present almost every bank uses computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">The account holder can close his account if he wishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Thus money can be deposited and withdrawn from the bank by opening an account with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Some banks are established to extend credit to different sectors for special purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">They are called specialized banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Like other developing countries, there are specialized credit institutions in Bangladesh also.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Bangladesh Krishi Bank: Just after liberation Bangladesh Krishi Bank was established with all the assets and liabilities of erstwhile Agricultural Development Corporation situated in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The approved capital of this bank is Tk:50 crore and the paid up capital is Tk:45.61</sent>
				<sent id ="299">The whole of this capital is paid up by the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">There is a Board of Directors consisting of 11 members for managing and directing this bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">The head office of this bank is in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Functions of Bangladesh Krishi Bank: Bangladesh Krishi Bank performs many important functions for the development of agriculture in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Bangladesh Krishi Bank gives short term, medium term and long term loan for the development of agricultural sector of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">It gives short term loan to the farmers for purchasing fertilizer, seeds, pesticides etc and meeting the cost of raking, harvesting and thashing of crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">This loan is repayable in 18 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">It gives medium term loan to the farmers for buying cattle, light machinery, levelling the land, sinking shallow tube wells etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The term of this loan is from 18 months to 5 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">It gives long term loan for buying land and heavy machinery, such as tractor, harvester etc, sinking deep tube well, digging canals, construction of godowns, development of tea gardens etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">The term of this loan is more than 5 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Krishi bank gives financial and technical support for setting up small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">It gives seasonal loan to farmers for producing different types of crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">It gives loan for horticulture and arboriculture also.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">It gi ves loan for fish processing project, construction of cold storage, land reclamation project etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">It gives loan for raising poultry and cattle, bee-hives, silkworm cultivation etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">It gi ves loan for preparing betel leaf scaffold, fruit culture etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">It accepts deposit from the people through dif ferent accounts like other banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Bangladesh Krishi Bank has been giving loans for the overall development of agriculture sector of this country since independence.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Lately the loan sanctioning process has been made easy and the rigidity of collateral security has been relaxed.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">As a result, not only the rich but the poor also have come under the scope of credit activities of the bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The bank has opened branches even in the remote villages to reach the credit facilities to the doorsteps of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">At present this bank has more than 1050 branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Bangladesh Shilpa Bank was established to supply capital in the industrial sector for its development.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">After independence in 1972, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank was established comprising former Industrial Development Bank and Equity Participation Fund.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The approved capital of Shilpa Bank is Tk:200 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Its head office is situated in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">There is a Board of Directors consisting of 9 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Functions: Bangladesh Shilpa Bank performs many functions for the quick development of industries in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Those functions are as follows: Bangladesh Shilpa Bank usually grants long term loan for setting up new industries and modernization of the old ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Loan is repaid both in local and foreign currency for the maximum term of 20 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">This bank provides short term loan also to industrial projects.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">It gives technical advice free of cost for setting up industrial plants in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">It reviews the pre-credit and post-credit condition of the industry to which it provides loan.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">It helps private entrepreneurs to choose industrial projects.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">It collects deposit through dif ferent accounts from the people like other banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">It sells bill of e xchange and other letters of credit both inside and outside of the country .</sent>
				<sent id ="336">The industries to which Bangladesh Shilpa Bank provides loan are chiefly jute, fertilizer, paper and pulp, printing, cotton, wool and fibre industries, workshops and small tools manufacturing factories, transport equipments etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">The most serious problem of industrialization in Bangladesh is the scarcity of capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Bangladesh Shilpa Bank is playing a very important role in the development of industries by providing industrial credit.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Grameen bank is a special kind of bank that gives small credit to petty land holders, landless farmers and other poor people of the society to enable them to participate in the productive activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Grameen bank was established in Bangladesh in This is an exceptional type of bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">It is Bangladesh where this kind of bank has been established for the first time.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">The approved capital of Grameen Bank is Tk:25 crore and paid up capital Tk:7.20 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Its share holders own 75% of the total share and rest 25% is owned by the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">There is a Board of Directors consisting of 13 members to direct and manage the affairs of the bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Grameen Bank works to achieve a number of specific objectives.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">The functions and objectives of the bank are as follows: Provide banking facilities to the poor men and women of the village.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Save the poor village people from the exploitation of the rural mahajans.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Organize under- privileged people under an institutional framework.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Mak e the weaker part of the poor village people eligible for loan by providing or ganizational support.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Create self-employment opportunity for the huge rural population.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Provide work for women of the poor landless families.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Areas of credit facilities The following are the notable areas where Grameen Bank provides credit facilities: Small trade; such as, paddy, rice, molasses, timber etc business centres and shops;</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Purchase of transports; such as, van rickshaw etc; Grameen industries such as, bamboo bask ets, cloths, soap, oil etc; Money and Banking System 181 Rearing livestock, fish culture; such as, raising cattle, goat, poultry etc and fish cultivation; Agriculture and forestry; such as, cultivation of vegetables, sugarcane and water melon etc. Bangladesh has created enthusiasm among the less affluent and landless farmers through the activities of Grameen Bank.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
