<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-eco-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.774</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">478</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">7149</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1867</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t51">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Agriculture means the production of plants and animal resources to meet the daily needs of human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Therefore agriculture is such a creative activity that involves the production of crops, raising domestic birds and animals, pisciculture, aforestation etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">At present agriculture is considered as the main occupation in most of the developing countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The main occupation of the Bangladeshis is also agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Agriculture has two objectives: Agriculture for subsistence and agriculture for commercial production.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Agriculture for subsistence: Agriculture which helps a farmer to produce agricultural products to meet the bare subsistence of his family is called agriculture for subsistence.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">As the amount of cultivable land is small, such agriculture has little scope for surplus which a farmer can barely reinvest in agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Besides this, landless farmers take others land on lease and engage in cultivation for subsistence.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Agriculture for subsistence has a few characteristics as below:</sent>
				<sent id ="10">a. Agriculture for subsistence is, in fact, undertaken to sustain living for self and the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Hence this type of agriculture basically aims at domestic consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In this kind of agriculture the farmer engages only the members of his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">He does not engage any hired labourer from outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The owner of the land himself takes part in this type of agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">In this type of agriculture the farmer produces only those crops which come to the use of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Agriculture for commercial production: Agriculture for commercial production means production and sale of agricultural commodities for making profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The amount of cultivable land here is large.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Agriculture is conducted here so that the farmer can sell his product in the market and earn profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Besides growing crops, fish-culture, raising poultry and livestock, horticulture and arboriculture, aforestation etc are also conducted on commercial basis.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Agriculture for commercial production has the following features.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The land owner does not directly cultivate the land; he rather employs hired labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The main purpose of this cultivation is not consumption but profit-making.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">So the production and marketing of agricultural crops under this type of agriculture are directed to earn profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The family may or may not consume the produced crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">So, the question of family consumption is not so much important in this agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Such agriculture is pursued basically for commercial purpose; hence those items are produced mainly which bring larger amount of profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">From the above discussion we can conclude that agriculture for commercial production is better than agriculture for subsistence on the grounds of efficiency, certainty and effectiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The majority of the farmers of Bangladesh are engaged in agriculture for subsistence.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">This is why there is almost no surplus in agricultural commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Consequently farmers income does not increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">To create wider scope for investment in agriculture and thereby to create bigger surplus products in agriculture, we should give more importance to agriculture for commercial production than to agriculture for subsistence.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The importance of agriculture in the economic development of an agrarian country is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Bangladesh is mainly an agrarian country.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">So her economic development depends mainly on the development of her agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Main occupation: About 75% people of Bangladesh are directly or indirectly dependent on agriculture for a livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">This fact proves the importance of agriculture in the country's economy.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Contribution of agriculture to national production: The volume of our national production depends upon the agricultural production.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">About 21% of the GNP (Gross National Product) comes from agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">So, the contribution of agriculture as an individual sector is very important in our national production.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The greater the volume of our agricultural production, the higher the national and per capita production.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Food supply: Different agricultural commodities such as food grains, fishes, mutton, milk, eggs etc meet our people's demand for food.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Increase in agricultural production will make it possible to supply more food for the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">It will remove the deficit of food in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Supply of raw materials for the industries: Raw materials for most of the industries, already set up or going to be set up, come basically from agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Industries have developed based on the raw materials like jute, sugar, tobacco, tea etc all of which come from agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Help to set up agro-based industries: With the development of agriculture, the demand for agricultural implements like fertilizer, pesticides, shallow and deep tube-well, power tiller, tractor etc also increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">As a result, mills and factories manufacturing those implements develop.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">So if agriculture in Bangladesh develops, mills and factories producing fertilizers, pesticides, shallow and deep tube-wells, power tillers, tractors etc will also grow up.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Consequently, quick industrialization in the country will be possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Supply of cloths: Agriculture help our people by providing them with cotton, silk, fleece etc from which different kinds of cloths are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Much of our demand for cloths is met with those products.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Besides, high quality carpets and curtain cloths are also produced from jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Supply of building materials and energy: Dwelling houses in rural Bangladesh are built mostly with bamboo, straw, hemp, leaves, cane, wood etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">These materials come from agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Besides, trees, dry leaves, jute sticks, rice bran, cow dung etc meet a great buck of our demand for energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">These also come from agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">So agriculture helps us by providing materials not only for building houses in the rural areas but also lessening our energy problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Setting up drug industries: We get raw materials for life saving drug from agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Different kinds of herbs and plants are available in every nook and corner and in the forest areas of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Depending on these, a herbal medicine system has been developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Our rural people have been using herbal medicine as curatives from the ancient time.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Contribution to foreign exchange earnings: A substantial portion of the foreign exchange earnings of Bangladesh comes from the export of various agricultural products.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">So more foreign exchange may be earned by increasing the volume of agricultural products and exporting them.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Then it will be possible to import the raw materials for essential industries, machinery as well as fuel with the foreign exchange so earned.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">This will make the country's industrialization speedier.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Increase of public revenue: A great buck of public revenue comes from agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Government earns a large amount from land revenue, agricultural income tax, transportation of agricultural products, customs and excise on agricultural merchandise etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The government can spend the increased revenue for administration and development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Creating market for industrial products: Farmers income increases with the development of agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">As a result their demand for industrial products also increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">To meet this demand more industries grow and new factories are set up.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">So the development of agriculture is essential for the development of industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Fast economic development: As an individual sector, agriculture contributes substantially towards the national production.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Through the development of agriculture, our internal wealth will increase and it will enable the government to meet the cost of various development projects with that internal wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">It will, therefore, be possible to bring about economic development through the development of this sector.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Conclusion: From the fore-going discussion we can understand that the importance of agriculture in the economic development of Bangladesh is immense and our overall economic progress depends on the development of agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Bangladesh is mainly an agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The system of agriculture is not developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">All the characteristics of backward system of agriculture are present here in his country.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">That is why agricultural production here is much lower than that of the developed countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Backward methods of cultivation: Most of the farmers in Bangladesh cultivate their land in ancient and unscientific methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">They have little familiarity with the developed methods and implements of cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The system of cultivation here is still backdated, undeveloped and faulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Lower productivity: Although an agricultural country, Bangladesh is one of the lowest productive countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">While Japan produces 2 tons of rice per acre, Bangladesh produces a little more than only half a ton.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Agriculture for subsistence: The farmers of this country cultivate basically for subsistence.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">So the sellable surplus is almost negligible.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Of course efforts are going on to increase production by applying high yielding technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Subdivision and fragmentation of land: Most of the farmers of this country own small plots of land, scattered over the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Mechanized methods of cultivation are not possible in those detached and small plots of lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">This is a great obstacle to the modernization of agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Landless farmers: Most farmers of Bangladesh are landless.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">They cultivate on others land either as lease-holders or day-labourers.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Not being the real owner, they feel less interest in cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">As a result production is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Fallow land: A substantial portion of the cultivable land still lies out of cultivation for want of adequate irrigation and drainage system.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">So the total actual production is less than expected.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Dependence on nature: Agriculture in Bangladesh still depends mainly on natural rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">There will be a good harvest if there is timely and adequate rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Otherwise the harvest is affected very adversely.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">As a result national production decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Maximum land is engaged in food-grain production: 80% of the cultivable land of the country is used for producing food-grains.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">As a result the production of raw materials for industries is less in agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Defective ownership of land: There is inequity in the ownership of arable land in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">30% farmers big and small own 80% of the cultivable land.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">On the other hand about 70% marginal farmers own only 20% land.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">As a result the lion's share of the farmers do not feel encourage in cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Absentee landlordism: Many people residing in towns own notable amount of cultivable land.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">In their absence, there is minimum supervision of cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The result is low production.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Share cropping system: About 25% of the total cultivable land of Bangladesh is cultivated under the system of lease or share cropping.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The production under share cropping is less than what would be if the lands are cultivated by the owners themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">As a result, agricultural productivity is much lower here.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Poor, sick and illiterate youth: Farmers of this country are mostly weak and unenterprising for want of proper food, cloths, health facilities and shelter etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Lack of general education has made them bigots, fatalists and superstitious on the one hand and the lack of education in agriculture has kept them ignorant of and indifferent to the modern techniques of cultivation on the other hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Conclusion: For the above mentioned characteristics of agriculture in Bangladesh, productivity in agriculture is low, farmers income is small and the standard of their living also very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Hopefully, at present modern technology and implements are being used in our agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">As a result the yield per acre is on the rise and agriculture is making progress.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Bangladesh is mainly an agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">But her agricultural system is very backward and faulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The causes of that backwardness are discussed below: Age-old methods of cultivation: Agriculture in Bangladesh is still grappling with the age-old methods of cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">For increased production, the use of modern, scientific methods of cultivation and implements are yet almost absent here.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The result is low production.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Sub-division and fragmentation of land: Most farmers of Bangladesh have sub- divided and fragmented plots of land scattered at different distances.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">In such fragmented lands introduction of scientific and mechanized methods is almost impossible.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It is also difficult to conduct and supervise the agricultural activities for smooth production and a good harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Problems of credit: Most farmers of this country are poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">So they cannot but take loan for agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">But the greater part of that loan comes from private sources which is both uncertain and risky.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Loan given from government sources is not sufficient and the lending process is complex and hazardous.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">That is why the farmers cannot invest as much money on the land as is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">So the volume of production does not increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Unequal distribution of land ownership: In Bangladesh the distribution of land ownership is very unequal and defective.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Only 30% farmers own about 80% of the total land.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">More than 50% farmers are landless.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Such unequal distribution of land ownership is a hindrance to increased production.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Lack of better seeds and fertilizer: Better seeds and fertilizers are very important for better production.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">But in Bangladesh both these implements are scarce.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Moreover our farmers are too poor to buy those.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The use of low quality seeds and insufficient fertilizer results into a bad harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Lack of irrigation facilities: Regular irrigation is essential for better and smooth production in agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">But scientific methods of cultivation in a wider scale are still almost absent in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Natural calamities: In Bangladesh, large scale damages are caused by natural calamities like floods, cyclones, tidal boars etc almost every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">As a result the farmers get poorer harvest than they expect.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Diminishing fertility of the land: Agricultural lands in Bangladesh are cultivated year after year and the crop is almost the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">As a result particular chemical elements in the soil fall short.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">For want of proper fertilization, this short-fall cannot be compensated.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Consequently, the land is becoming unfertile and yielding poorer harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Attack of pests and crop diseases: Attack of locusts and pests as well as crop diseases damages a large amount of crops every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">As a result the harvest is less than expected.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Water-logging and salinity: Excessive rainfall and lack of proper drainage system make many cultivable lands water-logged.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Moreover many lands in the coastal areas become unfit for cultivation due to salinity.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">As a result the cultivable land area is shrinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Poor rural infra-structure: For the development of agriculture, rural infra- structure such as drainage and sewerage system, roads, power supply, health facilities, supply of drinking water etc is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">But these are very scarce in rural Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">As a result the process of agricultural production cannot be conducted with proper skill.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Defective marketing system: In Bangladesh, the marketing of agricultural merchandise is very defective.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">In this marketing system, farmers are compelled to sell out their agricultural products at a lower price soon after the harvest owing to the existence of middlemen, dire financial constraint, want of storage system, under-developed transport and communication system etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">As a result they do not get a fair price.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Farmers poverty and illiteracy: Most farmers of Bangladesh are poor and aloof from the light of education.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">So most of them are bigots, fatalists and superstitious.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">They are not only ignorant of but also opposed to introducing new techniques in agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Lack of subsidiary occupation: In the rural areas there is no scope of subsidiary occupation for the farmers.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">So they have limited scope for increasing income.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">This hinders their economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">That is why they cannot be so active in cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Lack of proper organization: Farmers of Bangladesh cultivate their fragmented and small plots of land in unplanned and ordinary management.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Lack of agricultural implements and proper co-ordination among different stages hold them from conducting agricultural activities smoothly.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Lack of well-coordinated agriculture policy: In our agricultural activities, no well-coordinated strategy is followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">This is why, in our agriculture, there is no desired structural change happening.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Conclusion: With so many problems, agriculture in Bangladesh is more or less backward though Bangladesh is mainly an agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Therefore productivity in agriculture here in much lower.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The scientific technique and implements with which production activities are conducted is called technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">And modern technology in agriculture implies to conduct agricultural activities with the help of modern machinery, high-yielding variety of seeds, chemical fertilizers, pesticides, proper irrigation etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The main purpose of using this technology is to increase agricultural production.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Using Modern Technology in Agriculture: Agriculture in Bangladesh is very backward and faulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">This is why productivity in agriculture is low and so is the income of the farmers.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">To improve the situation, agriculture should be so conducted that it can bring better harvest, income of the farmers rises and more investment in agriculture becomes possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">For this, the use of modern technology in agriculture is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Use of modern machinery in agriculture: For higher production the use of modern machinery such as tractor, power tiller, harvester etc is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Recently this machinery have come to use in Bangladesh in a limited scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Most farmers of Bangladesh are poor, their lands are fragmented and scattered; so it has not been possible to employ those machinery on a wide scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Use of High Yielding Variety (HYV) seeds: For increased production the use of HYV seeds is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">To meet food deficit, HYV seeds of both paddy and wheat have been in use in Bangladesh for quite some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) has innovated 22 items of HYV seeds during the last 25 years since The HYV paddy seeds have yielded 40 to 80 maunds per acre depending on seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">At present HYV paddy is cultivated in 30% land every year which brings 70 lac tons of surplus rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The role of HYV wheat seeds is also unique in wheat cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The yearly production of wheat during the pre-independence period was only about 1.0 lac ton; but now it has risen upto 7.37 lac metric ton.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Use of fertilizer: Experience shows that the optimum use of fertilizer can increase production several times.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">To maximize fertility of our soil, cow dung as a good manure has been in use in our country since long.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">But with the increasing demand for fertilizer, different kinds of chemical fertilizers viz, urea, TSP, phosphate, gypsum etc are being used in a larger scale since early sixties.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The additional cost of fertilizer is redeemed through the increase in total income.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Moreover, with the optimum use of fertilizers much more crops can be produced annually on the same plots of land through multiple crop system.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Use of pesticides: In Bangladesh, pest attacks and crop diseases cause widespread damage to the crops every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">To save the crops from those damages, it is necessary to apply different kinds of pesticides in the crop fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">In fact IRRI cultivation has enhanced the use of pesticides at an increasing rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Use of modern irrigation machinery: For smooth production in agriculture proper irrigation in the field is needed as and when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Especially the HYV seed cultivation needs irrigation most.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">But in our country agriculture is mainly dependent basically on rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This rainfall is often irregular either scanty or excessive.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">As a result production is hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">To get rid of this situation in agriculture, it is necessary to conduct irrigation in a scientific method.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">At present irrigation is conducted in this country with the help of shallow and deep tube-wells, power pumps etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Besides, irrigation is also done by digging canals from rivers, beels haors etc or with the help of doans or dongas etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">When several persons voluntarily join their hands to form an association on the basis of co-operation and empathy to improve their lot, it is called a co-operative.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">With their joint efforts, several people can easily do what is impossible for an individual.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Poor and destitute people of the society can engage themselves for the well-being of one another on the basis of unity, co-operation and sympathy.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The association they form for this purpose is called a co-operative.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Basically a co-operative is an organization where the poor and the neglected voluntarily join hands with equal rights to improve their condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Unity is strength and All for one and one for all are the fundamental theme of a co-operative.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Bangladesh is basically an agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">In spite of that her agriculture is fraught with various problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">This is why this country is backward in agriculture and the productivity is very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Co-operatives can play a vital role in production by doing away with the existing problems in agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The role of cooperatives is described below: Unification of plots of land: Most plot of land in Bangladesh are fragmented and scattered over different places.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Laws of inheritance, frequent sale of land, population boom etc are mostly responsible for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Cultivation cannot be conducted smoothly on such fragmented lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">To do away with this problem the co-operatives can bring the plots of land together and introduce modern scientific methods of cultivation for better production.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Mechanized cultivation: In Bangladesh cultivation is conducted in the age-old method and in most cases, without the help of modern machinery.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">As a result, it wastes both time and labour on the one hand and the production is also low on the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">To solve this problem mechanized cultivation should be introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">But to do this the plots of land should be bigger in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Co-operatives can bring the fragmented plots together to make them bigger in size and mechanized cultivation can be introduced for better production.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Supply of agricultural loan: Most farmers of Bangladesh are poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The small income they make from cultivation can barely enable them to make both ends meet.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">It cannot help them making a surplus.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">This situation compels them to borrow money on high interest rates from different sources to conduct cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">In many cases they are deceived.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">In his situation hey can form village credit co-operative societies which can help them to conduct cultivation smoothly by granting them credit on easy terms and lower interest rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Providing irrigation: Irrigation is essential for unhampered cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">This can be done by sinking shallow or deep tube-wells and also by digging canals from rivers, lakes etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">But such a system of irrigation is costly and Bangladeshi farmers are too poor to adopt this system with individual efforts.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">In such situation, they can make it possible through co-operatives and conduct cultivation all the year round.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Purchase of agricultural implements at low price: Different kinds of implements are necessary for proper cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Especially, improved cultivation requires heavy and expensive machinery.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Many farmers cannot afford to buy this machinery at retail price.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">To overcome this difficulty, farmers can buy fertilizers, seeds, pesticides, machinery etc at low price through their co-operatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Introduction of crop insurance: In Bangladesh, natural calamities cause great damage to crops every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">As a result, not only many farmers become destitute but also the total production falls low.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">To combat this problem, introduction of crop insurance is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">City-based insurance companies cannot help so many farmers in the rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">In this situation village co-operatives can save them from the loss caused by natural calamities and accidents by introducing crop insurance.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Storage of crops: Crops can be preserved by storage and gradual supply can be possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">This can make possible to get reasonable price.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">For this purpose sufficient number of stores and barns should be built.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">But there is little scope for storage of agricultural crops in the rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">This situation compels the farmers to sell out their crops soon after harvest at a lower price.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">In these circumstances they can build stores and barns in the villages through co-operatives and get a fair price in due time.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Getting a fair price of agricultural merchandise: There should be an arrangement so that the farmers can get a fair price of their crops and increase their income.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">For this, there should be an improved marketing system.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Bangladeshi farmers do not get a fair price because the marketing system here is very faulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Middlemen like brokers, farhias and traders cheat farmers in different ways in purchasing agricultural merchandise from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">In these circumstances, the farmers can be saved from the exploitation of the middlemen and helped for getting fair price of their crops through forming sale committees.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">From the above discussion we can understand that the importance of co-operatives is very great in the agriculture of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">If the agriculture of Bangladesh can be reorganized on the basis of co-operatives, many problems in agriculture will be solved.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Consequently, agricultural production will increase side by side the farmers standard of living will also rise.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">When the land owners of an area voluntarily unite their plots of land for cultivation, it is called cooperative farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Farms thus formed are called co-operative farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">In co- operative farms the individual ownership of land is retained; but the control of implements of production is left with the co-operative.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The produced crops here are distributed among the members of the co-operative according to quality of their land and labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">To speak of modern technology in agriculture, the method of co-operative farming comes into relevance.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Because the implements of modern technology such as HYV seeds, chemical fertilizer, pesticides, tractor, power tiller, harvester, shallow and deep tube-wells for proper irrigation etc are very expensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">But most of our farmers are poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">It is impossible for them to buy those implements in their individual capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">If the farmers unite their lands for co-operative farming, they can collectively buy and use the necessary modern agricultural implements.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Then, the use of modern technology in a wider scale will be possible in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">So we can conclude that in the matter of using modern technology in agriculture, the importance of co-operative is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">In spite of having competency for a job on a fixed remuneration, many do not get any job.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">They are called unemployed.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Such unemployed people in agriculture are too many.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">When unemployed, people find employment without depending on others it is called self employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">In Bangladesh, many people dependent on agriculture are directly or indirectly unemployed.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Unemployment can be done away with by creating employment opportunities in the agricultural sector.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Self-employment is possible by using the premises of dwelling houses, small plots of land owned by self or taken on lease, using ponds and ditches etc. Now-a-days self-employment is possible by raising poultry, fish cultivation, nursery, fruit or flower garden, cattle breeding etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Various private aid organizations, NGOs, Grameen Bank, commercial as well as specialized banks are extending counseling and credit to such enterprises undertaken by individuals or co- operatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Raising poultry: Self-employment is possible by raising poultry in and around our homesteads.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">It possible to raise poultry with only one cock and 8-10 hens at the initial stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">It is possible to start a poultry farm with a small capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">To develop a poultry farm as a means of self-employment, we can set up a broiler farm or a layer farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Mutton-giving chickens are called broilers.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">To set up a broiler farm we can procure healthy and strong chicks from a chicken producing farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">6-8 week old broiler chicks can be sold; thus we can recover the invested capital with profit within a short period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Besides, this type of farm does not need large investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Egg-producing hens are called layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">With that also, we can set up a poultry farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">This type of farm is called layer farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">We can start such a farm usually with 8 or more week old growing up hens.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">A layer hen gives 270-280 eggs annually under improved management.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Keeping in view the high price of eggs, layer farms can be a very profitable enterprise.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Raising ducks: From time immemorial, almost every family in rural Bangladesh has been raising ducks.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The environment with ponds, ditches, tanks, haors etc around the dwelling places are especially suitable for raising ducks.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Ducks can be raised by making permanent or floating platforms by or on ponds, tanks, ditches etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Khaki campbel and zinding variety of improved foreign breed give 200-250 eggs yearly.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">They put up well in our environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">This type of duck farm can be started usually with 90-100 days old growing up ducks.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Fish cultivation: In rural Bangladesh fish cultivation can be an important source of self-employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">With the passage of time, many unemployed youths in rural areas are getting involved in this occupation.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Fish can be cultivated in both confined and open waters.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Ponds, tanks, haors are called confined waters while rivers and lakes are called internal open waters.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">With the advancement of science, fish culture technology has developed a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Fast growing new variety of fishes is being imported in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Fingerlings are being produced through artificial insemination, without depending on nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Besides, fisheries department is giving both technical and financial support for fish culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Compared to other vocations, fish culture requires small capital but yields a sizeable income.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Moreover wecan have a lot of leisure between working times here and secure additional income by spending that leisure in other vocations.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">For these advantages, fish cultivation has become more popular than many other means of self-employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Nursery: The place where plants and saplings are produced, nurtured and preserved till before transplantation is called a nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Starting from fruit plants of mango, black-berry, jack-fruit, guava, plum, papaya, lemon etc. saplings of mahogany, teak, korhoi, saal, garjan, chapalish etc also can be produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Nurseries are set up for collecting, distributing and planting saplings according to demand and also for making a stock of saplings of different ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Lately, tree plantation programme has started in the country both at government and private levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Nursery has been identified as a nice and prospective means of self- employment in the mean time.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Fruit and flower gardening: Among the different means of self-employment fruit and flower gardening demands special consideration.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">With the rise of people's standard of living, the demand for flowers has also risen.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Its market is also expanding.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">So flower gardening can be identified as a prospective means of self-employment in the near future.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Horticulture is possible on commercial basis within and around homesteads and also on roofs of the buildings.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Cultivation of flowers of daily demand has been proved profitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Horticulture is possible with small capital and little labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">If you have a pretty good amount of land or you can take that land on long term lease, you can make a fruit garden there.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Now-a-days HYV seeds of guava, papaya, lemon etc are available.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">These give fruit in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Moreover, grafted plants of mango, plum, jamrul etc bear fruit within a very short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Small scale gardening of guava, papaya, lemon etc can also be done in the yards and roofs of dwelling houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Raising livestock: From time immemorial, our people have been raising livestock.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">For the purpose of cultivation, transportation, meat and milk, making woolen cloths, etc our village people raise cattle, goat, sheep etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">For higher production of crops, transportation of grains, increase in the demand of meat and milk, the demand for cattle-heads has increased greatly.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">This is why raising livestock has lately become a profitable occupation.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Many unemployed people of the country are choosing raising livestock as one of the attractive means of self-employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">In our country dairy farms mainly produce milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">At the family level, 2 5 cattle heads can make dairy farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">In such case one can loan from banks and counseling from the government livestock department.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">In agrarian Bangladesh, almost 70% of the land has come under cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Different kinds of crops are grown in a wide scale all over the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">These crops can be divided into two classes: food crops and cash crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">The crops consumed as food are called food crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Such crops are grown to meet the demand of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">If there is any surplus, it can be marketed for sale or exported abroad if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Paddy, wheat, pulses, oilseeds, barley, maze, potato, fruit, vegetables, spices, maize etc are the main food crops of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">On the other hand crops grown for profit are called cash crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">These crops are mainly for sale in the local market and also exported abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Jute, tea, sugarcane, tobacco, silk, rubber etc are cash crops of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Among the food crops of Bangladesh, paddy, wheat, pulses, oilseeds, barley, maze, potato, vegetables, fruits, spices etc are the main products.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Below is the description of these food crops: Paddy: Paddy is the main food-crop of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Rice produced from paddy is the staple food of the Bangladeshis.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Paddy is cultivated in 80% of the cultivable land of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Muddy and silted plain land washed by rivers, 16 C 30 C temperature and 100 cm 350 cm annual rainfall is especially favourable for paddy cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Bangladeshi soil and climate being so, paddy is widely cultivated here almost everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">But paddy is produced in greater quantity in Barisal, Patuakhali, Sylhet, Chittagong, Comilla, Noakhali, Mymensingh, Rajshahi, Dinajpur districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Bangladesh produces mainly aus, amon and boro paddy.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">But apart from these three varieties, different kinds of HYV paddy are also being produced lately.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Bangladesh is the 4th largest paddy producing country in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">In spite of that, Bangladesh do not produce as much paddy as can meet her vast population.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">So Bangladesh has to import huge quantity of rice every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">In our country, about 2.73 crore metric tons of paddy is produced annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Wheat: Among the food crops of Bangladesh, wheat comes second.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">At resent, atta and flour produced from wheat is the second chief food of the Bangladeshis.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Plain land where water does not stand, 16 C 22 C temperature and 40 cm 100 cm average annual rainfall is especially suitable for wheat cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Though the soil and the climate are not very suitable; yet the winter is on the whole favourable for wheat cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Wheat is cultivated here on a limited scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">In Bangladesh, wheat is cultivated on an average in almost 9.88 lac acres of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">The main wheat producing areas are Tangail, Dinajpur, Khulna, Jessore, Kushtia, Pabna, Rajshahi, Bogra, Rangpur, Faridpur and Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Gradual food deficit and rising price of paddy are changing people's food habit and for that reason, the importance of wheat cultivation is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">The annual production of wheat is about 7.37 lac metric tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">The population of wheat in 2008-2009 was 849 thousand metric tons is the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Pulses: Pulses are one of the chief items on the menu of the Bangladeshis.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Generally 15 C 20 C temperature and sandy soil with drainage are especially suitable for pulses cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Pulses are cultivated in about 7.69 lac acres of land on an average annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">In Bangladesh, winter and the basins of the Padma and the Jumna are especially favourable for pulses cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">But pulses are cultivated also in other areas of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Different kinds of pulses are produced in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Among them lentil, gram, pea, moog, kolai, khesari, arohar etc are notable.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">About 2.59 lac metric tons of pulses is produced here annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">The population of pulses in 2008-2009 was 196 thousand metric tons is the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Oilseeds: Usually vegetable oil is produced from soyabean, olive, peanut, coconut, linseed, cotton seeds, mustard, sunflower etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Amongthe various oilseeds produced in Bangladesh, mustard, rai, peanut, linseed, soyabean, coconut etc are the main ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Besides cooking, vegetable oil is used in making scents, varnish, candle, soap etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Winter weather is favourable for producing oilseeds, so most oilseeds are produced in winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Larger amount of oilseeds are produced in Dhaka, Mymensingh, Rajshahi and Dinajpur districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Still the oilseeds produced here are not enough to meet our demand;</sent>
				<sent id ="380">so a great quantity of oil and oilseeds are imported from abroad every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">About 0.6 million tons of oilseeds are produced in the country annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Barley: Like wheat barley is also a kind of grain.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Barley bread and barley powder are easily digestible food.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Barley is also an ideal food for patients.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">10 C 13 C temperature and 40cm 60cm rainfall is necessary for barley cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">The climate of Bangladesh is not favourable for barley production;</sent>
				<sent id ="387">so the amount of barley produced here is not much.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Barley is grown in about 20,000 acres of land of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Rajshahi, Pabna, Kushtia, Bogra etc are the main barley producing districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">The annual production of barley in the country is about 14,000 tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Maize: Atta and khoi made from maze are tasty food for the poor people of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">It is the chief raw material for glucose production.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Fertile, loamy soil where water does not stand, 100 C 150 C temperature and 50cm - 100cm rainfall are especially suitable for maze cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">The soil and climate of Bangladesh is not suitable for maze cultivation; so maize cultivation is very scanty.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Chittagong Hill Tracts, Bandarban, Khagrachhari, Dinajpur, Rangpur Mymensingh, Tangail,Rajshahi and Pabna are the main maze producing districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Bangladesh produces about 522,000 tons of maize annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Potato: Two types of potatoes are produced here: round potato and sweet potato.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">a. Round potato; Round potato is used mainly for curry preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">This kind of potato is cultivated in winter by irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Round potato is cultivated almost everywhere in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">But Dhaka, Comilla, Bogra, Dinajpur, Rajshahi, Mymensingh are the main potato producing districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">About 15 lac tons of potato is produced in the country.The production of round in 2008- 2009 was 5268 thousand metric tons is the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Sweet potato: Poor people of Bangladesh eat sweet potato as an alternative to the main food.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">This kind of potato is produced mainly in the sandy soil of the char areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Mymensingh, Kishorganj, Comilla, Jamalpur, Dhaka, Noakhali, Barisal etc are the main producers of sweet potato.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">The annual production of sweet potato in Bangladesh is about 5.80 lac tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Fruits: Fruits increase the supply of food besides developing food habits in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Fruits were grown in this country in olden times to meet domestic demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">But now they are being produced on commercial basis.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Mango, jack- fruit, papaya, banana, guava, plum, wood-apple, pineapple, lichi, water melon, coconut, orange etc are the main fruits of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Varying on soil and climate, different types of fruits grow more or less everywhere in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Mango and lichi in Rajshahi and Dinajpur, banana in Munshiganj, pine apple in Sylhet, coconut in Khulna grow abundantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Vegetables: Vegetables grow almost everywhere in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Among them gourd, pumpkin, brinjal, cucumber, plantain, cabbage, tomato, bean, potol, jhinga etc are noteworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">People of this country widely eat these vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">The annual production of vegetables is around 12.50 lac tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Spices: Spices are used mainly to increase the taste and flavour of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">High temperature and heavy rainfall are necessary for producing spices.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">The summer climate of Bangladesh is favourable for the cultivation of spices.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Different kinds of spices such as pepper, onion, ginger, garlic, coriander etc grow almost everywhere in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Other spices such as cardamon, cinnamon, clove, cumin etc do not grow in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">This is why these items are imported from abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Around 14.06 lac tons of spices are produced in the country annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">The production of Spices in 2008-2009 was 1103 thousand metric tons in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Among the cash crops of Bangladesh, jute, tea, tobacco, cotton, silk, rubber etc are the main.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Jute: Jute is the chief cash crop of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">About 75% of the world production of jute grows in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Bangladesh stands first in the world in best quality jute production.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">18% of our foreign exchange comes through the export of jute and jute products.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Hesian, sac, bag, carpet and curtain cloths are produced from jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">For jute cultivation alluvial light loamy soil, 2000 C 2600 C temperature and 200cm 250cm rainfall on an average are necessary for jute production.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Most of Bangladesh has this kind of soil and climate; so jute is cultivated almost everywhere here.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">But Mymensingh, Dhaka, Comilla, Noakhali, Rangpur, Pabna, Bogra, Faridpur and Jessore are the main jute producing districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">At present jute grows in around 10.34 lac acres of land with a total production of about 48.84 lac metric tons annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">The production of jute product in 2008-2009 was 278,78 thousand metric tons in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Tea: Tea is the second main cash crop of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">To remove fatigue and exhaustion, tea is regarded as a beneficial soft drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">For tea cultivation, sloppy loamy soil, 160 C 270 C temperature and 150cm 250cm rainfall are necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">The soil and climate of the hilly areas of Sylhet, Chittagong, Chittagong Hill Tracts are especially suitable for tea cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">So tea grows there in plenty.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">There are 158 tea gardens in the country and tea is grown in 1.30 lac acres of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">7% of our foreign exchange comes from the export of tea.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Our annual production of tea is about 56.11 thousand metric tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Sugarcane: Sugarcane is the third main cash crop of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Sugarcane is used as raw materials for producing sugar and molasses.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">For sugar cultivation, usually alluvial muddy loamy soil, 240 C 270 C temperature and 100cm 150cm rainfall are necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Some areas of Bangladesh have such soil and climate; so sugarcane is widely cultivated there.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Sugarcane grows in abundance in Rajshahi, Rangpur, Dianjpur, Bogra, Fridpur, Mymensingh and Dhaka districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">At present sugarcane is cultivated in 3.71 lac acres of land with a total annual production of 57.70 lac metric tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Tobacco: Tobacco is another cash crop of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Tobacco is the main raw material for cigarette and bidi industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Besides, tobacco is used in manufacturing pesticides.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">For tobacco cultivation light loamy soil, warm and moist climate and moderate rainfall are necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">The soil and climate of Rangpur area is especially favourable for tobacco cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">45% of our total production comes from Rangpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Tobacco also grows in Nilfamari, Kushtia, Jessore, Rajshahi, Dhaka, Comilla, Mymensingh, Sylhet and Barisal.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">Tobacco is cultivated in 1,20,000 acres of land with a total annual production of 39,000 metric tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">The production of tobacco in 2008 - 2009 was 40 thousand metric tons in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Cotton: Cotton is a potential cash crop of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Lately, a small quantity of cotton is being produced here.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">For cotton cultivation, fertile, slightly limy, stagnation-free loamy soil, warm climate and 75cm 100cm annual rainfall are necessary for cotton cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">So a small quantity of cotton can be produced here.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">A small quantity of cotton grows in Jessore, Kushtia, Dinajpur, Rangpur, Pabna, Khulna, Dhaka, Tangail, Mymensingh areas covering about one lac acres of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">The annual production of cotton is here is 0.74 lac bales.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">Silk: Silk is another potential cash crop of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">The fibre produced by the worms of mulberry trees is called silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">Very fine and costly cloths are made from silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">The cultivation of mulberry trees in Bangladesh has not spread much; so silk production has not made much progress.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">70% mulberry trees grow in Rajshahi, and Nowabganj districts only.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">Besides, a small number of mulberry trees grow also in Bogra, Kushtia, Jessore, Faridpur, Mymensingh, Sylhet districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Bangladesh produces about 4,000 tons of silk annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Rubber: Rubber is a potential cash crop in the economy of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">Sloppy, loamy soil, 200 C 270 C temperature and 200cm average annual rainfall are necessary for rubber cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">The soil and climate of Bangladesh are not very suitable for rubber cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Still rubber is cultivated here in the hilly and high lands of Chittagong, Chittagong Hill Tracts, Cox's Bazar, Khagrachari, Bandarban, Sylhet, Mymensingh and Tangail districts at both private and government levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">Rubber plantation has necome popular in this country in a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">It is bringing good result also.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">At present rubber is being produced in about 90,000 acres of land with an annual production of 700 tons on an average.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
