<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-geo-12</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.696</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">639</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">10290</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2422</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t79">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Location : Bangladesh is located in South Asia in the southern part of the continent of Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Bangladesh is an independent sovereign country.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">This country is situated between 2034 North latitude and 2638 North latitude and between 8801 East longitude and 9241 East longitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The Tropic of Cancer passes through the central part of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Area : The total area of Bangladesh is 1,47,570 square kilomitres.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">According to Bangladesh Statistical Bureau, 1996-97, the area under rivers is 9,405 square kilometres and that of the forest is 21,657 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The total area of Bangladesh excluding rivers and forest is only 1,16,508 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">A huge area is rising slowly due to accretion in the coastal region to the south of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">It is expected that with such accretion in the south, the total area of Bangladesh would increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Boundary : Bangladesh is surrounded by sea on one side and by different states of India on other three sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">To the north of Bangladesh, there is West Bengal, Meghalaya and Assam, to the east there is Assam and Tripura, Mizoram and also Myanmar, and to the south the Bay of Bengal and to the west the state of West Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The total length of the boundary of Bangladesh is about 4,711.18</sent>
				<sent id ="13">kilometres of which about 3,715.18</sent>
				<sent id ="14">kilometres is found to exist between Bangladesh and India, whereas, the coastal boundary extends for only 716 kilometres (Fig.78).</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The physiography influences agriculture, industry, trade and commerce, transportation and communication system.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The influence of physiography in the economic development is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Bangladesh is one of the largest deltas of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The Padma, the Brahmaputra, the Surma and the Kushiyara flowing from the west, north and south-east respectively have together formed this huge delta.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The plains are ideal for permanent settlement.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The whole area of Bangladesh is a great plain, but there is little highland in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The Hills of the Tertiary Age : This region covers the hills of the south-east and north-eastern parts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">These hills were formed along with the formation of the Himalayan Mountains, and so, these are called the hills of Tertiary age.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">It is assumed that Lusai hills of Assam and the Arakan of Myanmar are considered to be of the same age.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">These hills are formed of the sandstone, shales and mud.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Hills of the South-East : Rangamati, Bandarban, Khagrachhari, Cox's Bazar and the eastern part of Chittagong cover this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The average height of these hills is 610 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The peak of Keokradong (1,230 metres) of Bangladesh is located in the south-eastern part of this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Recently, another peak named as Tajiodong (Bijoy) of 1,231 metres in height has been discovered in Bandarban.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">This is now the highest peak of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Hills of the North and North-East : The heights of the hills in the north of Mymensingh and Netrokona districts, in the north-east of Sylhet district and the hills of the south of Moulavi Bazar and Habiganj are not more than 244 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The hills of the north are locally known as Tila.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The height of these Tilas varies from 30 to 90 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The Terraces of Pleistocene Period : The Pleistocene period is over 25,000 years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The Barind of the north-west, the Madhupur and Bhawal Garh of the central part and the Lalmai hills or highland of Comilla district cover this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">It is thought that these terraces were formed during the Pleistocene period.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The Barind : The Barind covers an area of 9,320 square kilometres in the north- western region of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The height of this region above the flood plain is about 6 to 12 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The colour of the soil is grey and red.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The Madhupur and Bhawal Garh : The Madhupur Garh is situated in Tangail and Mymensingh districts and the Bhawal Garh is in Gazipur district.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The area is about 4,103 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The height of this region above the plain land is about 30 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The colour of the soil is grey and red.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Lalmai Hills : The Lalmai Hills stretch from Lalmai, 8 kilometres to the west of Comilla town to Maynamati.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">This region covers an area of 34 square kilometres and the average height is 21 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The Recent Flood Plains : Excepting the hills of Tertiary Age and the Pleistocene Terraces, the whole of Bangladesh is a plain land drained by rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Innumerable small and big rivers are found everywhere in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">These rivers flow through the plain land causing floods during rainy seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">This flood plain has been formed due to the deposition of the sediments brought down by the rivers for years together.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The total area of this flood plain is 1,24,266 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">This plain land slopes towards the coast from the north of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The Sunderban region stands almost at sea level.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The other regions such as Dinajpur stands at a height of 37.50 metres, Bogra at 20 metres, Mymensingh at 18 metres, Narayanganj and Jessore at 8 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Innumerable marshy and lowlands are scattered throughout this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Some of these are abandoned Ox-bow lakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Locally, these are known as beel, jheel or haor.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Of these, the Chalan Beel and the haors of Madaripur and Sylhet are remarkable.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">These are submerged during the rainy season and turn into lakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The layer of the soil of the whole flood plain is very deep and very fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The recent flood plain can be divided into several divisions, viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Piedmont Plain of Rangpur and Dinajpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The Flood Plain of Dhaka, Tangail, Mymensingh, Pabna, Jamalpur, Comilla, Noakhali and Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The Deltaic Plain comprising of some parts of Faridpur, Kushtia, Jessore, Khulna and Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The Flat Coastal Plain of Chittagong extending from the lower part of Noakhali and the Feni rivers to Cox's Bazar.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The Tidal Plain or the Mangrove Forest comprising of some parts of Khulna and Patuakhali region and Barguna district.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Bangladesh has got about 700 rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Due to the presence of a large number of rivers, Bangladesh is called a riverine country.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The rivers influence the life style of the people of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The Padma, the Brahmaputra, the Jamuna, the Meghna and the Karnaphuli are the major rivers of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">These rivers have also got their tributaries and distributaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The total length of all the rivers including tributaries and distributaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The total length of all the rivers including tributaries and distributaries is about 22,155 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The description of the rivers of Bangladesh is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The Padma : The Padma is one of the largest rivers of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">This has originated from the Gangatri glacier.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Then it flows to the south-west and then to the south-east taking the name of the Ganges at Haridwar and enters into the plain lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">From this point, the Ganges flow through Uttar Pradesh and Bihar State leaving distributary named the Bhagirathi (Hooghly) river at Dhulian of Murshidabad district in West Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The Bhagirathi falls into the Bay of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The main flow of the Ganges takes the name of Padma at the south-western point at Rajshahi region and flowing for about 145 kilometres through West Bengal and along the border of Bangladesh enters into Bangladesh through the north-western point of Kushtia district.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Then it meets the Jamuna river at Daulatdia ghat.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">This combined stream flows towards the south-east as the Padma and meets the Meghna at Chandpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Afterwards, the combined flow of these three rivers fall into the Bay of Bengal as the Meghna.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The Padma drains an area of 34,188 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The Kumar, the Mathabhanga, the Bhairab, the Gari, the Madhumati, the Arial khan etc. are the distributaries of the Padma river and the Mahananda is the main tributary.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The Punarbhava, the Nagor, the Pagla, the Kulik and Tangan are the tributaries of the Mahananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The Brahmaputra : The Brahmaputra river originates from a glacial part of Kailash Peak of the Himalayas, then flows to the east over Tibet and finally passes through Assam to the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Thereafter, the Brahmaputra rivers enters into Bangladesh near Kurigram district.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Thereafter, this river takes a turn towards south-east near Dewanganj and then flowing through the district of Mymensingh falls at the Meghna to the south of Bhairab Bazar.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The Dharla and the Tista are the main tributaries and the Bangshi and the Shitalakhya are the major distributaries of the Brahmaputra river.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The Jamuna : The main branch of the Brahmaputra near Dewanganj of Mymensingh district flows towards south as the Jamuna to meet the Padma river near Daulatdia.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The Karotoa and the Atrai are the major tributaries of the Jamuna and the Dhaleshwari is its distributary.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Whereas the Buriganga is the distributary of the Dhaleshwari.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The Meghna : The Barak river of Assam originates from Naga-Manipur region and being divided into two branches as the Surma and the Kushiyara, enter into Sylhet district of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The Surma, the northern branch, flows towards west by the side of Sylhet, Chhatak and Sunamganj.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The Surma of north Sylhet, the Kushiyara of South Sylhet, the Kalni of Habiganj meet together near Ajmiriganj.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Then the combined stream of the Kalni, the Surma and the Kushiyara after flowing some distance to the south as the Meghna, joins the old Brahmaputra in the south of Bhairab Bazar and flowing to the south-west it meets the Padma near Chandpur and ultimately falls into the Bay of Bengal as the Meghna.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The Meghna drains an area of about 29,785 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The Monu, the Baulai, the Titas, the Gumti, are the tributaries of the Meghna.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The Karnaphuli : Two hundred and seventy four kilometres long the Karnaphuli river having originated from the Lusai Hills in Assam and flowing through Rangamati and Chittagong region falls into the Bay of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This is the main river of Chittagong and Rangamati.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The major tributaries of the Karnaphuli river are the Kassalong, Halda, and Boalkhali.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">A Hydro-electric Project has been constructed at Kaptai on the Karnaphuli river.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The main sea port of Bangladesh is situated at the south of the Karnaphuli river.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The Sangu : The origin of the Sangu river is in the Arakan Mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Originating from the boundary of Myanmar and Bangladesh and flowing through Bandarban and Chittagong, the river falls at the south of the mouth of Karnaphuli into the Bay of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The Feni : The Feni river is situated in the district of Feni.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The origin of this river is in Tippera Hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Flowing through the eastern side of Feni, this river falls into the Bay of Bengal at the north of Sandwip.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The climate of Bangladesh is more or less moderate.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">As the Tropic of Cancer passes through the centre of the country, the climate prevailing is tropical.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The influence of the Monsoon wind on the climate of this country is so strong that as a whole, the climate of Bangladesh is known as tropical monsoon climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The characteristics of the monsoon climate is the appearance of different seasons in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">A little variation in the climate in different seasons is well marked.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">But Bangladesh never experiences extreme climate like the cold and warm countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">In fact, hot and humid summer and dry and comfortable winter are the remarkable characteristics of the climate of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The average annual temperature is 26.01 Celsius and the average rainfall is about 203 centimetres.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The rain occurs from June to October due to the influence of the monsoon in this country (Fig. 81).</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Maximum rain occurs in Sylhet region in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Summer Season : The summer season in Bangladesh extends from the month of March to May (Falgun to Jaishtha).</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The temperature gets increasing in this season, as the sun gives vertical rays over the tropic of cancer during this period.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The temperature, wind direction and the rainfall of this season is discussed below : Temperature : The summer is the hottest season in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">During this season, the maximum temperature of 34 Celsius and the lowest of 21 Celsius is recorded.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">152 Secondary Geography The average temperature of 28 Celsius is found to prevail in the month of April.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">During this time, the temperature increases gradually to inland from the coastal region of this country (Fig. 82).</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Fig. 82 : Temperature of Bangladesh (July) Rainfall : The Kalbaishakhi thunderstorm or the Norwester is one of the important characteristics of summer weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">This Kalbaishakhi thunderstorm occurs with high intensity during the months of March to April.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">About 20 per cent of the total annual rainfall occurs due to Kalbaishakhi storms.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">About 20 per cent of the annual rainfall of Bangladesh comes in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">During this time, the average rainfall recorded is about 51 centimetres.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Wind : A change in air pressure is found to occur due to the northward movement of the sun in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The hot and humid air coming from the south rises upward due to high temperature and comes in collision with the cold and dry air coming from the north-west causing rainfall with thunderstorms.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Rainy Season : The rainy season extends from June to October (Jaishtha to Kartik) in Bangladesh i.e. the interim period between summer and winter with rain is known as the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">During the first half of June, the rainy season starts with the advent of Monsoon wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The characteristics of rainy season is discussed below : Temperature : The sun gives vertical rays during rainy season in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">As a result, the temperature increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">But due to cloud cover and heavy downpour, the high temperature is not felt.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The average temperature is 27 Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The month of April is the hottest month.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Rainfall : During the rainy season, south-west monsoon wind blowing over Bangladesh brings heavy moisture from the Indian Ocean and the Bay of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">This moisture causes heavy convectional rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">80 per cent of the total annual rainfall occurs during this time.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Wind : There is a change in air pressure due to the location of the sun over Bangladesh in the month of June.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The rainy season begins when the south-west trade wind starts blowing from the Bay of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">During this time, the north-east trade wind subsides and the south-east trade wind after crossing the equator, according to Ferrels Law, is deflected towards right and it becomes south-west monsoon wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">After the rainy season is over, the cyclone hits Bangladesh occasionally.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Winter Season : The period from the end of November to February (Kartik to Falgun) is known as winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The temperature starts declining after September and October.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The lowest temperature is found to prevail in January (Fig. 83).</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Temperature : The minimum temperature is found in winter is our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">During this season, the maximum temperature of 29 Celsius and minimum of 11 Celsius is recorded.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The coldest month is January and the average temperature recorded is 17.7 Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">During winter, the temperature decreases towards north from the coast to inland.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">In the history of Bangladesh, the lowest temperature ever recorded was 1 Celsius in 1905 in the district of Dinajpur northern region.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Rainfall : During winter, Bangladesh does not normally experience any rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">At this time, the north-east cold monsoon wind blows over Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">A little amount of rainfall occurs in the coastal and in the mountainous regions during winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The rainfall accounts for not more than 10 centimetres.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Wind : During winter season, the humidity in the air is less as the cold Monsoon wind blows from the north-east over Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The lowest humidity recorded during this time is 36 per cent.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Sometimes, very cold wind blows over the northern region and as a result, it experiences very cold weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The accumulation of trees is known as forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The resources which are produced or collected from the forest is known as forest resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Forest resources have a great part to play in the economic development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">25 per cent of the total land should remain under forest cover for the economic development of a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">During 1995-96, the area of the forest was 21,914 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">At present, the area of the forest of Bangladesh is 25,000 square kilometres i.e. about 62 lakh acres of land remians under forest which accounts for only 17 per cent of the total land.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The forest cover in Bangladesh is remarkably less compared to the demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The forest cover is diminishing day by day to meet greater demand for timber for housing and furniture and wood for fuel caused by the increase of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The following table shows the area of the forest in Bangladesh in comparison to other countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Table 6 : Percentage of the total area of the forest cover in comparison to other countries (Bangladesh Forest).</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Account of forest resources of Bangladesh : Due to the variation of the soil and climate, different types of natural vegetation is found to grow in different regions of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">According to the characteristics of the vegetation, the forests of Bangladesh has been classified as follows.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Tropical Evergreen and Deciduous Forest : The trees which do not shade their leaves at a time and the leaves remian more or less evergreen are known as Evergreen Deciduous Forest, but trees which shade their leaves at a time are known as Deciduous Trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">In Bangladesh too, there are two types of forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">These forests cover the major parts of Khagrachhari, Rangamati and Bandarban and a considerable part of Chittagong and Sylhet districts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The area of this forest is 14,102 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Due to heavy rainfall, evergreen trees have developed in this forest (Fig. 84).</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Evergreen trees like Chapalish, Moyna, Telsur etc. are found in this forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Gamari, Shimul, Koroi, Teak.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Jarul etc. are among the deciduous trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Besides, bamboo, cane, wax, honey and medicinal herbs are collected from this type of forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Tropical Deciduous Forest : The trees of the tropical regions which shade their trees once a year are known as Tropical Deciduous Forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The Pleistocene Terraces of Bangladesh are covered with this forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">This type of forest is found in Mymensingh, Tangail, Gazipur, Rangpur and Dinajpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">This forest has been divided into two parts viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The forest cover of Mymensingh, Tangail, and Gazipur districts is known as Madhupur Tract and Bhawal Garh, The forest cover found in Dinajpur district is known as the forest of Barind region.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The Sal trees are perdominant in both the types of forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The trees of Madhupur and Bhawal Garh forest region is locally known as Gajari.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Moreover, Koroi, Hizal, Bohera, Horitoki, Kathal, Nim etc. trees are found in the forest of Madhupur and Bhawal Garh.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The total area of this forest is 1,338 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">About 95 per cent of the trees in the forest of Barind region is Sal.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The area of this forest is only 22 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Mangrove Forest or the Sunderban : The area of this forest is 6,474 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">This forest covers the districts of Khulna, Satkhira, Bagerhat and Barguna.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">This forest occupies 95 square kilometres of the south-west of Barguna and the rest covers the southern parts of Satkhira, Khulna and Bagerhat districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The Sunderi and the Garan are the main trees of this forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Among other trees, Gewa, Passur, Dhundal, Keora, Garan, Bayen etc. are remarkable.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Golpata is abundantly grown in the Sunderban.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Importance of the forests : Forests play a great role in the economic development of a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The forest resource is limited in Bangladesh, yet its role in the economic development of the country cannot be ignored.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The forest of Bangladesh contributes 5 per cent to the national income of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The importance of the forest resources to the economic development is discussed below : Collection of consumable goods : To meet their daily needs, people collect wood, bamboo, cane, honey, wax etc. from the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The skins of animals and the medicinal herbs are also collected from the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Construction materials : The people collect wood, bamboo, cane etc. from the forest for the construction of houses and for making of furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The people collect valuable timber from Sal, Teak, Mehogani, Garjan, Gamari and Koroi trees for construction purposes and to make furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Agricultural development : The forest of the country keeps the climate humid.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">As a result, there is abundant rainfall which is essential for agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Besides, the forests prevent soil depletion and control floods.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Development of industries : The forest resources are used for the production of paper, rayon, match, fibre board and the accessories for toys and have thus accelerated the development of industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The Karnaphuli Paper Mill and the Newsprint Mill of Khulna have been established on the availability of forest resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Transportation and communication system : The wood collected from the forest is used to make railway slippers, frame for buses, trucks, boats, launches, ships, electric poles, bridges etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Sources of government revenue : The government can have income from the forest resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">For example, the government can increase its revenue by selling or disposing of the forest resources and by imposing taxes on such resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Foreign currency earnings : Bangladesh is earning huge amount of foreign currency by exporting the hides and skins, tooth, horns, feather of different types of animals, industrial raw materials and the live animals from the forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">At the root of the modern civilisation, there is power resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The economic development has been accelerated with the progress of civilisation and the invention of sources and uses of new energy resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">In the beginning, the people would depend on their muscle power.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Afterwards, they started to use the animal for different works.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Indeed, economic development started through the use of inanimate energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The people from the very ancient times they have been producing energy by burning wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Besides, Energy is produced form waterflow.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The coal, mineral oil and natural gas are considered as the prime sources of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">There are hardly any coal and oil resources in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">There is however, significant reserve of natural gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The country is said to be rich in gas resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">But it is not possible to meet the energy demand by gas alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Hydro-electric power is one of the main resources of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Hydro-electric power accounts for only 6 per cent of the total energy of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Bangladesh is a riverine country.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">There is every possibility of producing hydro-electricity in the riverine country of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">It is possible to produce hydro-electricity by putting dam on the hilly rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Besides, Bangladesh being abundant in natural gas, thermal plants have been established using gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The total electricity production capacity in the country was 2,908 megawatt during 1996-But actually 2,148 megawatt of electricity was produced in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The energy capacity increased to 4,230 megawatt during 2001-02 and in 2007-08 to 5,262, and 2009-10 (March, 10 till), it has increased to 6,033 megawatts.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Of the total electricity production 88.24 per cent was gas based, 3.18 per cent hydro-electric based, 3.81 per cent coal based and 4.77 per cent fuel oil based.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">During 1991-92, the per capita electricity production was only 79 kilowatts hour which increased to 99 kilowatts hour during 1996-On the other hand, 2001-02, per capita electricity production was 136 kilowatts hour which increased to 165 kilowatts hour during 2007.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">At present, the per capita electricity production 220 kilowatts hour .</sent>
				<sent id ="237">A. Hydro-electricity : In general, the electricity which is produced by harnessing the running water is known as Hydro-electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Some of the Hydro-electric Projects of Bangladesh are discussed below (Fig. 85).</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Karnaphuli Hydro-electric Project : The Karnaphuli river is dammed at Kaptai in Rangamati and the water is harnessed to produce electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The project was constructed in At present, 120 thousand kilowatts of electricity is produced by three generators at Kaptai Hydro-electric Plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Sangu Project : The hydro-electricity is produced by constructing a dam over the Sangu river in Bandarban district.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">B. Thermal Power : Thermal electricity is another most important source of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Thermal electricity is more profitable where the production of hydro-electricity is either difficult or expensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Generally, the electricity which is produced by burning natural gas, mineral oil, coal etc. is known as thermal electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The production cost of thermal electricity is more in comparison to hydro-electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">To meet the countrys demand of electricity, the production of thermal electricity is more necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">There are some thermal plants to meet the countrys demand of electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Coal, natural gas and mineral oil are used to produce thermal electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">During 2008-09, Bangladesh produced 5,496 megawatt of thermal electricity .</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Brief description of the main thermal plants of Bangladesh are given below : Ashuganj Thermal Plant : This thermal plant is located at Ashuganj in Brahmanbaria district.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The first unit went into production in The production capacity of this unit is 1 lakh 10 thousand kilowatts, Natural gas is used in this plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Ghorasal Thermal Plant : This unit is located at Ghorasal in Narsingdi district.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Natural gas is used for production of electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The capacity to produce electricity is 1 lakh 10 thousand kilowatts.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Siddhirganj Thermal Plant : This unit was established at Siddhirganj of Narayanganj district.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Natural gas is used for the production of 80 thousand kilowatts of electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Shahzibazar Thermal Plant : This unit is situated at Shahzibazar of Sylhet district.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Natural gas is used in this unit as fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The gas is supplied from Habiganj.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The production capacity is 1 lakh 4 thousand kilowatts.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Chittagong Thermal Plant : The electricity is supplied to Chittagong city and to its neighboring areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Its production capacity is 80 thousand kilowatts.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Goalpara Thermal Plant : This thermal unit was established by the bank of the Bhairab river at Goalpara of Khulna district.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">The production capacity is 80 thousand kilowatts.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The electricity is supplied to Khulna and its surrounding areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Bangladesh is not self sufficient in power resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">The electricity produced by hydro-electric plants and the electricity generated by thermal units using natural gas as fuel is not sufficient in comparison to requirements.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">At present, Bangladesh is producing 4,296 megawatts of electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Many countries in the world use atomic energy to produce electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">It has not yet been possible to produce electricity in Bangladesh using atomic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The role of power resources is important for the economic development of any country.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Electricity, now-a-days, is used in modernising the agricultural system i.e. in switching over to mechanised cultivation, in irrigation and in other projects.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The use of power resources is extensive in industrial and rural development, in transportation and communication, in fuel and in trade and commerce.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Among natural resources, mineral resources are particularly remarkable.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">But, mineral resources in Bangladesh are not abundant.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Economic development is hampered due to the scarce quantity of mineral resources in Bangladesh in comparison to requirements.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">A detailed discussion on the available mineral resources is given below (Fig. 86).</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Coal : Coal is one of the sources of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Coal is used to run the machineries, factories, railways, steamers etc. Coal is also used as fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Bangladesh is not rich in coal resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">A low grade peat coal in good quantity is available in Baghia and Chanda Beel of Faridpur, Kola Beel of Khulna and in few places of Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Besides, a reserve of high quality coal of bituminous and lignite variety has been found in Rajshahi, Bogra, Naogaon and Sylhet district.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Recently the production of coal has been started at Barapukuria coal field in Dinajpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Mineral oil : The experts think that there is mineral oil in the coastal region of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Oil was found in the seventh well of Haripur of Sylhet district in 1986.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Everyday about 600 barrels of crude oil from this well is extracted and sent to Chittagong Refinery for processing.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Petrol, kerosene, bitumin and other products are produced from crude oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The second oil field of Bangladesh is located at Baramchal of Moulavi Bazar district.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">About 1,200 gallons of oil is extracted everyday from this field.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Limestone : Limestone is available in Jafflong and Zakiganj of Sylhet district, in Bhangarghat, Baglibazar, Lalghat and Takerghat of Sunamganj district, in Sitakunda of Chittagong district and in St. Martin's Island of Coz's Bazar district.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Limestone is also available in Jamalganj of Jaipurhat district and in Jaipurhat of Rajshahi Division.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Limestone is used as a raw material for cement.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Besides, limestone is also used in glass, bleaching powder, soap and paper industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">China clay : White clay is available in Rajshahi, Naogaon and Mymensingh.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">This white clay is used for the production of Chinawares (Crockeries), electric insulators and sanitary materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Copper : Copper is available in Ranipukur and Pirganj of Rangpur district and in Madhyapara of Dinajpur district along with hard rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Hard rock : Hard rock is used in the construction of the railways, roads, houses, bridges, dams and in flood control projects.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">This hard rock is available in Ranipukur and Shyampur of Rangpur district and Madhyapara of Dinajpur district.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Arrangements have been made to extract hard rocks in Ranipukur of Rangpur district with foreign assistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The experts think that from this field, about 17 lakh tons of hard rock may be extracted.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Attempts have been made to extract hard rock from Madhyapara of the district of Dinajpur with foreign assistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Silica sand : Generally, silica sand is used in glass production.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Besides, silica sand is also used in producing paints and chemical materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">The sand is available in Nayapara, Shahzibazar, Kulaura, Chhatian of Sylhet district.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Balizuri in the south of Sherpur district and Dohazari of Chittagong district.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">About 1 lakh 18 thousand cft. of silica sand is produced annually in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Atomic minerals : Generally, atomic minerals are used in heavy metallic industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Huge quantity of mineral sand is found to occur in the area extending from Kutubdia of Chittagong district to Teknaf coastal region.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Zircon, monazite, ilmenite, magnatite, leokcen etc. are the atomic minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">In collaboration with the Australian Government, a pilot scheme is going to be taken up to collect the atomic minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Sulphur : Sulphur is generally used in chemical industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">It is used for producing explosives, insecticides, acid, purification of petroleum, match etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Sulphur is available in Kutubdia Island of Chittagong district.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Natural gas : Bangladesh, in comparison to other countries of the world is lagging behind in mineral resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">But, Bangladesh is rich in natural gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Natural gas is an important fuel resources which accounts for 75 per cent of the total commercial consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">The total number of gas fields so far discovered upto June, 2010, was But at present, gas is being tapped from 79 wells of 17 oil fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">During 1997-98, actual production was 282 billion cft.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">and during 1998-99, this increased to 308 billion cft., 2001-02 years this was 392 billion cft.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">and 2006-07 years this was 562 billion cft.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Presently, total reserve is about 28.85 trillion cft.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">(Source : Bangladesh Economic Survey, 2010, Page 129).</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The gas fields of Bangladesh are Sylhet, Chhatak, Rashidpur, Habiganj, Kailashtila, Bakhrabad, Titas, Begumganj, Kutubdia, Kamta, Semutang, Feni, Beanibazar, Fenchuganj, Jalalabad, Meghna, Narsingdi, Shahbajpur, Sangu, Saldanadi, Bibiana, Moulavi Bazar and Bangura.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The uses of gas and its importance is discussed below Fuel in industries : Natural gas is used as fuel in our industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">The fuel problem is thus relieved to some extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Natural gas is used in commercial installations.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">At present, about 75 per cent of the total fuel in Bangladesh is natural gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Electricity production : The importance of natural gas is not insignificant in the field of electricity production.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Natural gas, instead of furnace oil is used in few of the electricity producing centres such as in Siddhirganj, Shahzibazar, Ashuganj and Ghorasal.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">As a result, the production cost for electricity becomes less.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Electricity may be consumed at a cheaper rate in industries and in the residentail areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Industrial raw materials : Natural gas is being used as a raw material in the fertilizer factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Besides, natural gas is also used to produce insecticides, rubber, plastic, synthetic fiber etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Employment : Gas exploitation and discovery have created employment opportunities for many people.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">They are engaged in extraction of gas, well digging, maintenance and marketing etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Natural gas is thus being used in agriculture, in industries, and in domestic purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Natural gas is also one of the important sources of revenue.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">The government earns a remarkable portion of its revenue from natural gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The economy of Bangladesh is mainly agro-based.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Though the country is agro-based, yet as a developing country, the importance of industries is no less.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Bangladesh still is not rich in industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">The number of industrial units is small.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">The major industries are : Jute industries : The geographical factors for the growth of jute industries are : climate, physiography, soil and the abundance of energy resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">The economic factors are the availability of raw materials, skilled and cheap labour force, market, capital, developed transport system and government enterpreneurship.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">There was no jute industry in this country up to The first jute industry with 1,000 looms was established in 1951 in Adamjeenagar of Narayanganj.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">This was largest jute mill of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">But the government has closed it down as it was incurring loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">The total Jute Mills in Bangladesh is 99 at Private Sector but at present about 73 jute mills have been running.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">During 2008-09, the number of jute mills became 93 (Source : Bangladesh Statistical Pocketbook, 2009/February 2010, Page 229).</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Narayanganj, Khulna and Chittagong are the three major jute industrial centres.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Besides, there are jute mills in Demra, Ghorasal, Narsingdi, Bhairab Bazar, Gouripur, Madaripur, Chandpur, Sirajganj, and Habiganj (Fig. 88).</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Generally, hessains, guny bags, carpet, ropes etc. are manufactured in jute mills.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Moreover, different types of hand bags, sandles, mats, dolls, show pieces etc. are also produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Recently, the government has banned the use of polythene shopping bags under 100 micron, and as a result, the use of jute bags has increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">At one time, 55 per cent of the total foreign earnings would have come through exports of jute and jute goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">The production of jute goods for several years and the foreign currency earned through exports are presented in Table 7.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">It is mentioned earlier that a great portion of the foreign currency was derived through exports of jute and jute goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">The United States of America, United Kingdom, India, Egypt, Russia, Poland, Bulgaria, Belgium, Canada, Italy, Germany, Japan, France and other countries purchase jute and jute goods from Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Due to the widespread use of synthetic fibres in the world, today the demand for jute and jute goods has declined greatly, and as a result, the production of jute in Bangladesh has also decreased to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Cotton textile industry : The second major industry is the cotton textile industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Among the basic needs, cloth is placed next to food.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Bangladesh is not self sufficient in this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">The main raw material for this industry is cotton which is produced in small quantity.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">The climate required for cotton textile industry is favourable.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">The yearly demand of cloth in Bangladesh is about 823 million metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">But the local industries produce only 450 million metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">The cotton produced is very little in comparison to the total requirement and is of low grade.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Therefore, the textile industries are to depend on the imports of cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Soon after independence, the government of Bangladesh nationalised all the cotton and yarn mills and a little later, the responsibility for management and maintenance was handed over to Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (B.T.M.C).</sent>
				<sent id ="370">During 1984-85, some of the mills were de-nationalised and at present, about 25 such mills are being maintained by private sector.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">About 10 lakh labourers are working in textile industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">But a major proportion of this is engaged in handloom industries working in rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">About 75 thousand workers are engaged in textile industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Textile industries have grown up in different places of Dhaka, Comilla, Noakhali and Chittagong of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">The factors held responsible for growth of textile industries are mainly the supply of cheap labour, good transport and communication system, humid climate and the availability of local markets.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">About 24 textile mills have been established in Dhaka and in its surrounding areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Cotton weaving industries have been developed in Tongi, Fatullah, Narayanganj, Kanchpur, Demra, Savar, and other regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Fauzderhat, Sholoshahar, Panchlaish and Halishahar are the notable textile industrial centres in Chittagong region.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">This region is the second major textile industrial centre of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">There are textile mills at Durgapur, Daulatpur, Halimanagar, Brahmanbaria, Debidwar and Feni in Comilla-Noakhali region.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">This region is the third textile industrial region of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">At present, the quantity of cloth which is produced in Bangladesh is quite insufficient to meet the demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Bangladesh imports huge quantity of cotton clothes and yarns from Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Korea, Pakistan and other countries every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Paper industry : Paper industry is one of the largest industries of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">The first paper mill was established in At present, there are 6 paper mills, 4 board mills and 1 newsprint mill in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">The paper mills are Karnaphuli Paper Mill at Chandraghona in Rangamati district, the North Bengal Paper Mill at Pakshi in Pabna district, and Sylhet pulp and Paper Mill at Chhatak, Bashundhara, Magura and Shahjalal Paper Mills near Meghna ghat in Narayanganj district.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Besides, of the Newsprint Mills, the Khulna Newsprint Mill, and of the board mills the Bangladesh Hard Board Mills, Adamjee Particle Board Mills, Kaptai and Tongi Board Mills are remarkable.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">The first and biggest mill is Karnaphuli Paper Mill.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">The bamboo, soft wood, reeds (nalkhagra), bagassee, jute sticks etc. are used as raw materials for the production of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Very recently the technology to produce high quality of paper has been invented using raw jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Writing paper, printing paper, packing and other papers of high quality are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Production of paper and of Newsprint for a number of years is presented in Table 9.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Table 9 : Production of paper and newsprint, Bangladesh, 1999-2009 Source : Bangladesh Statistical Yearbook, 2009, Table 5.13</sent>
				<sent id ="394">There is scarcity of raw materials, chemicals, and power resources in paper industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Proper supply of raw materials, abundant and regular supply of electricity and the creation of the world market is necessary for the development of this industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Fertilizer industry : Bangladesh is an agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Fertilizer has got an important role to play to increase the fertility of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Bangladesh needs more food to meet the demand of the increasing population.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Fertilizer is necessary to increase the yield of the crop per acre.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Along with the increase of the use of the organic fertilizer, the use of the chemical fertilizer has also increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">The factors for the growth of the fertilizer industries are the abundance of raw materials, availability of energy resources, market, cheap labour and good transportation system.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The first fertilizer factory of Bangladesh was established in 1961 in Fenchuganj of Sylhet district.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">At present, fertilizer is being produced from eight fertilizer factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">The rest of the fertilizer factories are Ghorasal Fertilizer Factory, Ashuganj Fertilizer Factory, Palash Urea Fertilizer Factory, Chittagong Tripple Super Phosphate Fertilizer Factory, Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Factory and Jamuna Fertilizer Factory and Fenchuganj Amonium Sulphate Fertilizer Factory (Fig. 90).</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Presently, Bangladesh needs 12 lakh tons of fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">But the production of fertilizer is inadequate in comparison to the requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">The information regarding fertilizer production is presented in Table 10.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">As Bangladesh is not self sufficient in fertilizer production, she has to import huge quantity of fertilizer every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">During 2001-02, Bangladesh imported fertilizer worth taka 615 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">During 2009-10 (March, 10 till), Bangladesh imported fertilizer worth taka 4713 crore (Source : Bangladesh Economic Survey, 2010, Table 51).</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Fertilizer is one of the large scale industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">There are enough possibilities for the development of fertilizer industries due to availability of natural gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">It is expected that within few years, fertilizer may be expected after meeting the local needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Sugar industry : Sugar industry is an important industry in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Sugar is an important element of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">In 1947, there were only 5 sugar mills in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">At present, Bangladesh has got seventeen sugar mills.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Among these sugar mills, the Rangpur Sugar Mill, Setabganj Sugar Mill, Thakurgoan Sugar Mill, Darshana Sugar Mill and Madhukhali Sugar Mill are remarkable industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Sugarcane is the main raw material for sugar production.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The sugarcane grows well in hot and humid climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Therefore, it can be said that due to weather and soil, the sugar industries have developed in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">For favourable weather, the sugar industries are located in the northern and weastern regions of the country ( Fig. 91).</sent>
				<sent id ="423">The sugar mills of the country cannot produce sugar to their full capacity due to the storage of required sugarcane.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">During 1994-95, the sugar production was 2.70 lakh metric tons.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">The sugar production upto 1999-2009 is presented in Table 11.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">At present, the sugar mills of Bangladesh are not capable of producing sugar to the requirement of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">As a result, the producing in comparison to annual requirement falls short.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Sugar worth taka 150 crore was imported during 1992-93.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">The main problem of sugar industries of Bangladesh is the uncertainty of supply of sugarcane.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">At one hand, due to the storage of sugarcane, the sugar mills could not use its full capacity of production and on the other hand, a tendency of produce molasses is observed.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Garment industries : Garment industries have developed here as an important industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Garment industries were developed to meet the local demand during early sixties and slowly turned into export oriented industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">During the end of the seventies and early eighties, export oriented garment industries started to flourish.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">About 92 garment industries started to export garments at the end of In 1984, the number of units were recorded at 455 in one year and in 1985 additional more units were established raising the total units to Since then, this industry very rapidly topped the export list.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Importance of the garment industries : The economic base of Bangladesh is dependent on agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">But the food that is produced cannot meet the demand of the people of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Every year, we have to import food at the cost of hard earned foreign currency.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Since the emergence of Bangladesh, there has been a shortage of exports in comparison to imports.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">The rapid growth of ready-made garments has been a major contribution to the economic rejuvenation of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">At present, there are about 1,000 export oriented garment units in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">About 75 per cent of the total units are located in Dhaka Metropolitan City.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">The rest of the units are in Chittagong Port City and few in Khulna.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">About 7 lakh labourers are engaged in this industry of which about 85 per cent are women.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">During 2001-02, Bangladesh earned foreign currency worth taka 17,947 crore, which accounts for 52 per cent of the total foreign earnings.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">But during 2008-10, Bangladesh earned foreign currency worth taka 30,273 crore, which accounts for 38 per cent of the total foreign earnings.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">The contributions made by garment industries to the total export earnings is presented in Table 12.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Huge quantity of ready-made garments are exported to the United States of America from Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Next is Germany, then comes France, Italy.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Britain, Netherlands, Canada, Belgium, Spain and other countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">There is a favourable environment for the development of garment industries in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">The availability of cheap labour is one of the main factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Along with the development of this industry, skilled and unskilled labour, particularly, the low income group, has been able to increase their income and the total economy of the country has also improved.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Now-a-days the garment industry is called a Billion Dollar industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">In respect to population, the position of Bangladesh is nineth in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">According to 1991 census, Bangladesh recorded 11.15 crore of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">The density of population is high in comparison to the land area.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">The annual population growth rate of our country is 2.17 per cent.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Bangladesh is one of the densest countries of the world (Fig. 92 and 93).</sent>
				<sent id ="459">According to the Census Report, 2001, the population of Bangladesh is about 12.93 crore, the rate of increase is 1.48 per cent and the density of population is about 876 persons per square kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">At present, the population of Bangladesh is about 14.66 crore, the rate of increase is 1.39 per cent and the density of population is about 993 persons per square kilometre (Source : Bangladesh Statistical Pocketbook, 2009/February 2010, Page .</sent>
				<sent id ="461">If the present growth rate persists in the country, then the density of population would be increasing further.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Population resource is one of the most important elements for the economic development of any country.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">If a country has sufficient resources but if the manpower is not available in required number, then the natural resources cannot be utilised properly and as a result the economic development is hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">On the other hand, if the population is comparatively more than the available resources, then it becomes a burden or a problem for the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">Trained manpower is a resource for any country.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">The distribution of population of a country or a region depends on many factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">Physiography : The physiography of Bangladesh being homogeneous, human settlements are found almost everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">The livelihood is tough in the hilly regions of Rangamati, Khagrachhari, Bandarban and in the Sunderban region and therefore the density of population in these regions are very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">As the railways and the road communication system is not well developed in those regions, making a living hard here.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">Therefore these regions are less densely populated.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">In the slopes of the hills of Sylhet, where there is tea cultivation, settlement has developed around the tea industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">The plains of the river valleys are fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">Dense human settlements have developed due to ease of agriculture in these areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">The navigability of the rivers and the advantages of roads and railway communication have attracted people to these regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Climate : Climate controls the distribution of settlement.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">People prefer to live in good climate rather than in extreme climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">The climate is almost the same in all over Bangladesh, but the variation of temperature between summer and winter is felt more in the northern region of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">The plains attract people to live there because of the favourable climatic conditions for agriculture and crop production.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">Mineral resources : Labourers and workers have developed dense settlements in the regions where mineral resources are available.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">Industrial development : Mineral resources, agriculture resources, forest resources and animal resources have attracted people to develop settlements.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">In these regions, along with the major industries, some other related industries have developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">Due to the development of the industries and trade, the surrounding areas are turned into populous regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">As industrial towns have developed in Tejgaon, Tongi, Narsingdi, Khulna and Chittagong, the density of human settlements is high in such areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">Transportation system : If in a place, the road communication is well developed and if there is easy railway connection and if there are facilities of river communication, then it becomes easy for the place to maintain good linkages with other regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">In such case, the place becomes populous.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Cultural effect : Now-a-days, education and culture have great influence on people.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">The development of science and technology, the bonds of philosophy and culture attract people closer and help to exchange their views.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">The regions having better education and cultural development will have more people.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">Economic development is being hampered due to high population growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">In the modern world, the transport system plays a vital role in the spread of the civilisation and in economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">It is impossible to survive in this modern world, ignoring the transport system.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">We understand the transport system as the communication linkage between different places and the movement of goods and people.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">The transportation system may be of different types.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">Land transportation : It means the road and railway communication system.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">The bus, lorry, truck, rickshaw etc. are the means of road transportation.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Railway train or carriages are used for communication purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">Road : The construction and the maintenance of roads are very expensive due to the existence of innumerable rivers, khals, beels, abundant rainfall, physical structure of the land, and the financial constraints.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">In 1947, there were only 1,931.17</sent>
				<sent id ="499">kilometres of metalled roads of which all season usable metalled road was only 386.23 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">During 1947-70, the total length of the road was 38,623.45</sent>
				<sent id ="501">According to 2007-08 the total length of the roadways is 2,86,507 kilometres (Fig. 94).</sent>
				<sent id ="502">The metalled road is 86,498 kilometres and unmetalled road is 2,00,009 kilometres .</sent>
				<sent id ="503">A look into the transport system of Bangladesh shows that a along with the mechanised transports, there are also the traditional transport like rickshaw, bullock carts, push carts etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">Due to the existence of the rivers, our roads are disrupted in many places.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">As a result, to keep the road communication in service, ferry services have been introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">The eastern and the western parts of the country have been linked through Bangabandhu Bridge.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">As a result, the commodities and the passengers can eagily be transported by road within very short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">To develop the road communication system, an organisation named as the Bangladesh Road Transport Corporation (B.R.T.C.) was formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">The roads have been categorised as National Highways, Regional Roads, Zila Roads, Upazila Roads, Union Parisad Roads and the Village Roads.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">All Zila towns are well connected with Dhaka by road.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">But to go to many of these towns, ferry service is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">Railways : At the time of independence in 1971, there was only 2,857 kilometres of railways.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">During 1995-96, Bangladesh had 2,706 kilometres of railway and during 2001-02, the total length of the railway line recorded 2,768.37 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">During 2008-09, the total length of the railway line recorded only 2,835.04 kilometres (Source : Bangladesh Economic Survey, 2010, Table 43, Page 283).</sent>
				<sent id ="515">This is known as Bangladesh Railway.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">The railways are of three types viz., broad gauge, metre gauge and doual gauge (Fig. 95).</sent>
				<sent id ="517">During 1995-96, Bangladesh had 884 kilometres of broad gauge railway lines, but recently, it increased to 659.33 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">This type of railway line is found in Khulna and Rajshahi Divisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">Some broad gauge lines are also found in Faridpur and Rajbari districts of Dhaka Division.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">During 1995-96, Bangladesh had 1,822 kilometres of metre gauge railway line, but recently it increased to 1,800.88 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">Most of these line in Dhaka, Chittagong and Sylhet Divisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">On the other hand, form Zamtail to Joydevpur the distance of both metre gauge and broad gauge rail lines are 374.83</sent>
				<sent id ="523">The broad gauge, metre gauge and doual gauge lines in Bangladesh are divided into two parts by the Jamuna river.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">All of the metre gauge and doual gauge railway lines are on the east and broad gauge railway lines on the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">Direct railway communication between the eastern and the western parts of the country has been established through the Bangabandhu bridge.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">At present, a ferry service is running between Tistamukh and Bahadurabad ghats and between Sirajganj and Jagannathganj ghats.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">Railways exist in all the districts excepting the hilly districts of Rangamati, Khagrachhari, Bandarban and the districts of Barisal, Patuakhali and Barguna.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">There are 440 railway stations in total (Source : Bangladedh Statistical Pocketbook, 2009/February 2010, Table 8.01).</sent>
				<sent id ="529">Out of these, Laksham, Akhaura, Mymensingh, Bhairab Bazar, Ishwardi, Parbatipur, Santahar, Bonarpara, Kaunia and Kamlapur of Dhaka junctions are particularly notable.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">Almost all the important towns are well connected with the capital of Dhaka through all these junctions.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">Waterways : The boats, launches and steamers are used in river communication, sea going vessels are necessary for sea communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">River transportation : There are innumerable rivers in the country, but all the rivers are not navigable.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">Bangladesh has got 8,400 kilometres of inland navigable waterways.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">Out of this, about 5,400 kilometres remain usable all the year round and the rest of 3,000 kilometres is used only during rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">Navigable waterways are under the control of Inland Water Transport Authority.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">Small boats, launches, steamers, sea-trucks, ferries, tankers, coasters ply on the internal rivers of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Generally, the rivers in the south and in the east are more suitable for inland communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Therefore, the important river ports are situated in these regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">Of these Dhaka, Narayanganj, Chandpur, Barisal, Jhalakhati, Khulna, Bhairab Bazar, Ashuganj, Mirkadim, Aricha and Sirajganj can be mentioned among river ports.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">94 per cent of the passengers travel by Tamburi boat, passenger boat (Gaina boat) and launches and the rest of 6 per cent by steamers (Fig. 96).</sent>
				<sent id ="541">Ocean transportation : Ocean routes are very much important for trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">Heavy duty commercial commodities and the goods of large size are carried through ocean routes.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">Trade between the countries can be carried over by ocean routes.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">Bangladesh has got two sea ports for trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">The first one is Chittagong sea port and the second one is Mongla sea port.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">The Chittagong sea port is situated on the bank of Karnaphuli river.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">Chittagong port is called the gateway to Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">This port has got road and railway connection.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">There are many jetties in this port and about 24 sea vessels can anchor at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">About 80 per cent of the trade of the country is carried through this port.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">The Mongla port is situated 50 kilometres south of Khulna at the confluence of the Passur and Mongla rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">This port is connected by rivers with Barisal, Patuakhali and Faridpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">This port has got water and road connections.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">Airways : Airways is also known as skyways.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">During the modern age, the air communication is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">For fast movement of passengers and cargo, the air is the best medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">The airways in Bangladesh occupies an important place in transportation system.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">Two types of air services are available in Bangladesh, viz., internal air service and the international air service.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">Air services between the districts within the country is known as internal air service.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">Dhaka is connected with Chittagong, Jessore, Sylhet, Ishwardi, Saidpur, Cox's Bazar, Thakurgaon, Barisal and Rajshahi under the internal air service system and Jessore, Cox's Bazar, Sylhet, can also be travelled from Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">On the other hand, when the Bangladesh Biman operates its air communication with other countries of the world, then it is called International Services of the Bangladesh Biman.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">Different countries of the world are linked with Dhaka and Chittagong in the international route (Fig. 97).</sent>
				<sent id ="563">Kurmitola of Dhaka is an international airport.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">Its name is Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport is the biggest airport of the country, next to it is the Chittagong Shah Amanat and Sylhet Osmani International Airport.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">The name of the Bangladesh Biman Organisation is Bangladesh Biman Airlines.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">Selling and purchasing of goods to meet the demands of the people and the related activities are known as trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">Trade have influenced the economy of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">In ancient times, trade was introduced through exchange of commercial goods due to non-existence of currency i.e. one would receive pulses or any other equal quantity of goods in exchange of same quantity of rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Ordinarily it can be said that exchange of commodities is the trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">On the basis of kind and nature, trade can be divided into two, viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">Internal trade and International trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">Internal trade : When the commodities are sold or exchanged between the different regions within the country, it is called internal trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">As for example, if the tea of Sylhet of Bangladesh is sent to other regions within the country for selling, then it comes under the category of internal trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">International trade : When the commodities or goods are sold and purchased between different countries, then it is called international trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">International trade is of two types- import trade and export trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">Import trade : To meet the requirements of the country when the goods are brought from another country, then it is called import trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">As for example, Bangladesh is to import baby food, machineries, food items, industrial raw materials and goods, medicine, chemicals, consumable items etc. to meet the needs of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">Consumable essential goods : To meet the food shortage, rice, wheat, edible oil, sugarcane, baby food, oil seeds are imported.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">Industrial goods : Main imported items for the industrial development are machineries, instruments, coal, cement, diesel, petrol, cotton yarn, electrical goods, iron and steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">Machineries and raw materials : Though Bangladesh is an agricultural country, it is not developed in agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">Agricultural implements, insecticides, high quality seeds and fertilizers are necessary to increase agricultural productivity.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">On the other hand, to increase industrial production, high quality machineries, instruments, raw materials etc. are necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Therefore these materials are imported.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">Besides these, Bangladesh imports medicine, glass, motor cars, bicycles, radioes, watches, televisions, refrigerators, buses, trucks, rubber goods etc, from foreign countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">The countries from where Bangladesh imports the goods are the U.S.A., Canada, the U.K., India, Japan, France, Singapore, China and Taiwan.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">Export trade : When the commodities of our own country are sent to other countries, then it is known as export trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">As for example, the ready-made garments, jute, jute goods, leather and tea of Bangladesh are sent to other countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">Ready-made garments : At present, Bangladesh earns its maximum foreign currency by exporting ready-made garments.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">During 1997-98, ready-made garments worth taka 12,924 crore, and during 2003-04 worth taka 20,853 crore were exported.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">Now, in 2009-10 it the export value has increased to 30,273 crores.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">Raw jute : Once, about 75 per cent of the total world production of jute was produced in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">The U.K., India, China, Japan, Indonesia, Pakistan, Turkey, Iran, and Russia are the main buyers of raw jute from Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">Jute goods : Bangladesh earns foreign currency by exporting hessains, bags, gunny bags, carpets etc. to foreign countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">About 35 per cent of the total export earnings come from jute goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="596">The jute goods are exported to Japan, the U.S.A., the U.K., France, Germany, Italy, India and China.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">Tea : Tea stands sixth in respect of earning foreign currency.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">There are 158 tea gardens in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">She exports tea to the U.K., the U.S.A., Russia, Netherlands, Japan and Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">Leather and leather goods : Bangladesh every year earns foreign currency by exporting the cow, buffalow and goat leather.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">The leather and leather goods have occupied the fourth place in the field of exports.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">Bangladesh mainly exports leather and leather goods to the U.S.A., the U.K., Germany, France, Italy, Belgium and Japan.</sent>
				<sent id ="603">Fish and frozen food : Fish and dried fish, frog leg, shrimp and other frozen foods are exported from Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">Paper and Newsprint : Bangladesh after meeting the local requirements, exports paper and newsprint every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">At present, paper is imported for our own consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">Others : Other exportable items are naptha, furnace oil, handicrafts and agricultural products.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">A comparative statement of the expenses for imports and the earnings from exports is presented in the Table 14.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">We have got enough quantity of natural resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">But due to the shortage of capital and technical know how, the natural resources are not properly utilised.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">For this, there is no balance between imports and exports.</sent>
				<sent id ="611">During 2003-04, Bangladesh imported goods worth taka 64,262 crore and exported goods worth taka 44,812 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">In 2009-10, Bangladesh imported goods worth taka 1,20,217 crore and exported goods worth taka 80,706 crore (Source : Bangladesh Economic Survey, 2010).</sent>
				<sent id ="613">Whole hearted co-operation is necessary to develop the economy of the country by increasing the exports and thereby to overcome the shortage in international trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">For this, increase in production, improvement of the quality of goods, reduction of the cost of production, reduction in internal consumption, reduction of export duties, development of transport system, wide advertisement of the exportable items are indespensible.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">Power Resources : Coal, mineral and natural gas are the main sources of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">Bangladesh is abundant in natural resources, but not in coal and mineral oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">Hydro-electricity : Hydro-electricity is one of the main sources of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">The electricity which is produced harnessing the water current is known as hydro- electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="619">Karnaphuli Hydro-electric Power Plant is at Kaptai.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">Thermal plant : Thermal electricity is one of the sources of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">There are thermal plants in Ashuganj, Ghorasal, Siddhirganj, Shahzibazar, Chittagong, Goalpara in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="622">Mineral Resources : Mineral resources are not abundant in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">Coal, mineral oil, limestone, China clay, bronze, hard rock, silica sand, nuclear minerals, salt, sulphur, natural gas etc, are found in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="624">Of all these, only natural gas is in abundant quantity.</sent>
				<sent id ="625">Industries : Jute, textile, paper, fertilizer, sugar, and garments industries are notable industries in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="626">Population Resources : Bangladesh stands 9th in the world in respect of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="627">According to 1991 census, Bangladesh has got 11.15 crore of population with a density of 755 persons per square kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="628">The population growth rate is 2.17 per cent per annum.</sent>
				<sent id ="629">According to 2001 census, Bangladesh has got 12.93 crore, the rate of increase is 1.48 per cent and the density of population is about 876 persons per square kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">At present, the total population stands at 14.66 crore and the rate of increase is 1.39 per cent and the density of population is about 993 persons per square kilometre (Source : Bangladesh Statistical Pocketbook, 2009/February 2010, Page .</sent>
				<sent id ="631">Land transportation : Land transportation includes roads and railways.</sent>
				<sent id ="632">The roads and railways of Bangladesh is 2,86,507 kilometres and 2,835.04</sent>
				<sent id ="633">Waterways : Waterways include river and ocean routes.</sent>
				<sent id ="634">Bangladesh has got 8,400 kilometres of inland navigable waterways.</sent>
				<sent id ="635">There are two sea ports, viz., Chittagong and Mongla sea ports.</sent>
				<sent id ="636">Airways : Domestic and international services are available in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">The main airport is Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">Major imported goods : The major imported goods are baby food, machineries, food items, industrial raw materials, agricultural implements etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">Major exportable goods : The major exported goods are ready-made garments, raw jute, jute goods, tea, leather and leather goods, fish and frozen food, paper and newsprint.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
