<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.403</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">209</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3022</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1069</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t72">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We use heat for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Heat also plays a role in driving vehicles, production of electricity etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">How do we get this heat?</sent>
				<sent id ="4">We get heat by burning charcoal, straw etc. Isn't it?</sent>
				<sent id ="5">We use oil, petrol, kerosene, bamboo, charcoal, dried leaves of plants etc. as fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">All these fuels are organic substances because they are either from plants or from animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">How have coal, oil, petrol and kerosene been obtained from living organisms?</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Due to severe earthquake, some natural calamity, or any other reasons trees and plants and animals fell underneath the soil crores of years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Fossils are the remains of animals and plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">These fossils in solid or liquid form are raised from the mines and are used as fuels.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">These are called fossil fuels.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The trees that grew millions and millions of years ago died and decayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The remains of their bodies are mixed with mud and silt and sedimented in layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Then due to earthquake or any other natural catastrophe, they were pressed under the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Due to changes in temperature and pressure underneath the earth they remains gradually transformed into coal, which is known as impure carbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Coal is available in mines thousands of feet below the surface of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">For production or raising of this coal a very deep hole is dug in the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Then the labours go into the mine, with the help of machine cut coal and load the trolley.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The trolley is pulled up by a lift machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Thus coal of different qualities is lifted from coal mines.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Coal is used as fuel for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Electricity is generated by the generator by turning the turbine with the steam produced by coal.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Earlier large quantity of coal was used to drive steam engines, trains etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">There is limited reserve of coal.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Once coal is raised from a mine, no new coal is formed there.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">That is why, it is necessary to control its use and prevent its wastage.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Coal has been discovered in the northern region of our Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The process has been started for raising coal from the coalmine of Barapukuria.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Recently more coal reserve has been discovered in Dighinala, a village of Dinajpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Scientists assume that, when the remains of animal and plant bodies are covered very deep underneath mud and silt, in course of time these undergo destructive distillation due to tremendous temperature and pressure of the interior of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Petroleum is a mixture of compounds formed by carbon and hydrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Natural gas is also formed in the same process.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Its main constituent is methane.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Due to variation in internal structure of the earth, petroleum is deposited in between two impenetrable layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Sometimes this oil remains floating on water.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Geologists determine the structure of the internal rocks of the earth, and then conduct many attractive experiments to detect the presence of oils.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">They make geological survey by causing explosion at a little depth of the earth and prepare maps indicating different information.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Studying this geological map, the scientists can more or less infer the presence of mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Then they carry on more experiments by digging the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">These types of experiment are of course expensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Hence, special considerations are given on the results of the initial experiments.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">If it is understood from the initial experiment that oil mining will be profitable, only then they proceed to dig deeper well inside the earth and make arrangements for raising oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Separation of Constituents of Oil : Petroleum raised from mines has many constituents.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Among them the main and important constituents are various hydrocarbons formed by combination of carbon and hydrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">These components are separated by fractional distillation plants in a refinery and refinery gas, petrol, kerosene, diesel oil, lubricating oil and bitumin are obtained as mixtures of more than one hydrocarbons.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">There is plenty of natural gas reserve in the mines of our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">At present, gas is being raised from the mines of Haripur, Bakharabad and Titas.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Gas can easily be transmitted by pumping through pipes from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">In many countries liquid gas is marketed in cylinders.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">All the compounds can be divided into two types viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">organic and inorganic compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">All organic compounds contain carbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Natural gas and oil are organic compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">These are formed of carbon and hydrogen mixed in different proportion.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Their general formula is Cn H2n+2 .</sent>
				<sent id ="56">You may have seen will-o-the-wisp in dark nights in pools and marshy lands and become frightened of ghosts.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">In fact, it is not the act of ghosts.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">When methane gas released from rotten organic substances comes in contact with oxygen of the air, sometimes gives fire because it is highly combustible.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">This is known as will-o-the-wisp.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Gas mines are searched out by geological survey.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">If the presence of gas is detected somewhere, holes are dug deep into the earth and pipes are inserted and gas is raised.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">It is a complex engineering process.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Then pipes and branch pipes are connected for gas supply to distant places.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The supply pipe must be completely air tight.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Thus, the fuel gas reaches the kitchen or industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Besides different uses of mineral oils mentioned in table-1, mineral gas is used in cooking and manufacture of fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Shoots used for manufacture of ink and black rubber is synthesized from mineral gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Methyl alcohol, formaldehyde etc. are manufactured from mineral gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Plastic, Formica, medicine, dyes, and liquids for preserving dead bodies are manufactured from formaldehyde.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Nylon, plastic materials, and different explosives are also manufactured from mineral oils.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Natural gas reserve in Bangladesh is about 3.4 1012 cubic meters, which will be exhausted within next 20/25 years if its use continues at the present rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Recently very limited quantity of mineral oil reserve has been detected in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Fossil fuel reserves are very limited not only in our country but also in the whole world.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">In course of time, these will be exhausted.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">So we are to be cautious about collection and use of these.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">It has been mentioned earlier that large quantity of mineral gas and oil is used as fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">But very often we notice their wastage and misuses.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Closing the key of the gas burner after cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Drying of wet clothes on gas stoves should be stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Engine of the vehicles should be stopped on the way for short stoppage.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Engines of the vehicles should be free from defects, because defective engines consume more fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">We should remember natural gas and oil are very valuable assets, as it is one of the main sources of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">It is our moral duty to preserve this asset.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Among the natural sources of energy, oil, gas, coal etc. obtained till now are going to be exhausted due to continuous use.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Atomic energy though appears as a promising source, its initial cost and the risk of danger and the monopoly influence of the big powers have kept it out of the reach of developing small countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Our natural gas is an invaluable resource.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">But it is not renewable.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">We can no more depend on a source, which is not renewable.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">About 3 crore and 90 lac tons of traditional fuels are used every year for cooking food for about 14.66 crore people of our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Of these fuels wood, straw, cow dung etc. are biodegradable substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">These help increase fertility of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">But as a consequence of burning of these for cooking, the soil is being deprived of organic fertilizer, micronutrients and the fertility of the soil is decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">One survey revealed that, organic cycle is 65 percent in the soil in China, but in our country, it is only 11 percent.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Wood is mostly used as traditional fuel in cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Consequently not only our forest resources are being destroyed but also a great calamity is befalling our climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Considering all these aspects, efforts are being exerted continuously to find out alternative sources in this great sector of fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">In the meantime, the scientists have devised biogas technology and they have been able partly though to use solar energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Sea-current and wind also have appeared as sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">You can see people cooking food in gas burners in Dhaka, Chittagong etc. towns, can't you?</sent>
				<sent id ="100">This gas is known as Titas gas or Bakharabad gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Haripur in Sylhet is the place where we got it for the first time.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">These are natural gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Arrangements may be made to prepare similar gas from decaying plants and excreta of various animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">This types of gas is known as biogas.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Bio means life.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Animals and plants are living.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Hence their bodies or substances secreted from their bodies are degradable.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">If cow-dung, leaves, straw etc are mixed with water and kept in absence of air, fermentation occurs with the help of a kind of bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">As result a kind of colourless gas is produced which is highly combustible.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">60-70 percent of it is methane gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Biogas production technology is very simple and interesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The process that produces biogas is called biogas plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The types of biogas plant is selected on the basis of easy availability of construction materials, their cost, durability and advantages of maintenance etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Excreta of cow, buffalo, goat, sheep and poultry dropping , garbages, water hyacinth or aquatic plants are used as raw materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Besides, human excreta are also used for the production of biogas.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Fig 7.2 shows a Floating Dome Biogas Plant with the name of its main parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Its two parts are the main.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The lower part is called digester and the part in which gas is stored is called gas holder.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Cow-dung or any other material is mixed in a definite proportion with water and kept in inlet tank and the mixture enters the digester through the inlet pipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Here fermentation occurs and gas is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The produced gas is stored in the floating dome partly immersed in the slurry.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The holder rises as the gas increases in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This holder dome is generally made of metallic substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">This model uses liquid slurry as raw materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The gas stored in the holder dome is transferred to the place of use through a pipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Raw materials entered into the digester, degrade in absence of air, release gas and go to the well on the right side.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">This residue is used as valuable organic fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The floating dome biogas plant does not remain efficient for more than three to five years.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Its gas holder is made of M.S sheet and hence it becomes rusty causing holes.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">These become useless because transport and welding facilities are not available in villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Floating dome biogas plant has less durability and is expensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">For this fixed dome biogas plant has been devised.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The figure 7.3 shows a Fixed Dome Biogas Plant with the name of its different parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Its whole part is constructed with bricks, sand and cement.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Its construction cost is less while it lasts longer.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">It continues to be active for more than 20 years if it can be constructed perfectly airtight.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Its dome is also constructed specially with bricks, sand and cement.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">At the centre of the dome a gas valve is fitted conveniently to connect a pipe leading to the place of use.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">This sort of plant does not have any separate gas holder.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Consequently slurry goes down the digester and makes room for gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Its pressure also increases with the increase of volume of gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">It is constructed totally under earth and because of that it does not waste any space.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">This model of plant is suitable for using solid, liquid and slurry form of raw materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Digester is the important part of a biogas plant (Fig. 7.4).</sent>
				<sent id ="145">A biogas plant is designed to provide the fuel needed for cooking and lighting of a family consisting of 7-8 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">It may be constructed in a circular well 2.5 meters in diameter and 2.2 meters depth making the centre of the bottom like an arch.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">An open passage is provided with the inlet pipe to the entry well in the left side and the hydraulic chamber in the right.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Fig 7.4: In A and B details of constructing a biogas plant which is able to supply fuel needed for a family of 7-8 members are shown.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">One G.I pipe of 1.27 cm in diameter and 25 cm in length is to be fixed vertically to the upper part of the dome for release of gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Gas valve is to be constructed at the upper end of this pipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">In order to make it perfectly air tight the portion from the upper end of the opening of hydraulic chamber to the upper surface of the dome is to be constructed in a special manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The hydraulic chamber (Figure 7.4B) is a rectangular tank.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It is constructed according to a special measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">An opening or a gate is provided so that the used up slurry can go out.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The upper surface of the hydraulic chamber is covered with a slab.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">At the mouth of the inlet pipe lies the tank made of thick bricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The interior of this tank is to be plastered well.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">After construction of the digester, hydraulic chamber and the tank at mouth of the inlet pipe, the surroundings of the plant are covered with soil in such a manner that the upper portion of the dome also lies under soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">At the time of operating the plant 1.5-2.0</sent>
				<sent id ="160">tons of raw materials, which are degradable, like the poultry droppings, cow dung and human excreta are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">This raw materials and clear water are mixed in definite proportions, in case of cow dung the proportion being 1:1 and these are allowed to enter the well slowly through the inlet pipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Care should be taken so that earthen clod, stones, sand, straw of big size do not enter.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">If the plant is not completely filled up, the rest has to be filled with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Biogas technology, operation and maintenance of a biogas plant are very easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Care must be taken so that earthen clod, stones, bricks or wood do not get into the plant at the time of charging.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">If on any occasion, the inlet pipe is blocked, a thin and straight bamboo is to be inserted and stirred.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Care must be taken so that the wall or bottom of the well is not hurt.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">If water accumulates inside the pipe, the nearest end is to be opened and water is to be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The plant is to be charged every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Otherwise the gas supply will fall, and if it is not charged for a long time, there is possibility of its inlet pipe to be closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">This gas can be used just like Titas gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">This gas is used for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">This gas does not produce any smoke and so the cooking utensils remain clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Mantle can be lit to illuminate rooms just like a hazak light.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Electricity can be produced by running a generator to operate radio, TV, refrigerator, VCR etc. Irrigation of agricultural land can be done by running a pump.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Vehicles can run with the help of this gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The manifold advantages of using biogas are mentioned below.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">It is a clean fuel gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">b) It helps to give improved organic fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">c) If helps to preserve pollution free environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">d) Maintains healthy and clean environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">As a result of the refuses being used in the plant, after obtaining gas the residue is an organic fertilizer of high quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Organic substances, Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium and micronutrients are preserved in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">This fertilizer is of a very high quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">This fertilizer can be used for cultivation of mushroom, fishes, earthworms, pearl etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">b) The refuses that pollute the environment are used in the biogas plant as raw materials and are converted into fertilizer free of any bad smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The harmful germs of the refuses are also almost destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">As a result, the biogas technology helps to control environmental pollution and maintain a healthy environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">c) At present, plants, straw, stubbles, cow dung etc. are burnt as fuels for cooking food items.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Consequently, soil is being deprived of natural fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">It we use biogas technology, this enables to get organic fertilizers through maintaining organic cycles.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">More than about 3 crore 90 lac tons (170 crore maunds) of fuels are used every year in our Bangladesh having a population of about *14.66 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Of these almost all are wood, straw, stubbles, dry cow dung etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">As a result of the use of these traditional * Source : Bangladesh Statistical Pocket Book-2009.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">fuels, our forest resource is going to be exhausted, the soil is losing fertility and environment is threatened with danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The rate of our population growth is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">We will be in great difficulties in meeting up the fuel demand of this increasing population.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">We must consider how to face this fuel crisis.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The number of cattle heads in Bangladesh is about 22 million.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Thay give about 220 million kg of cow dung daily.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">It is possible to produce about 2.97 109 cubic metre of gas from cowdung at the rate of 0.037 cubic meter per kg per year.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">This gas has the calorific value equal to 1.52106 tons of kerosene or 3.04106 tons of coal.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Besides, it is possible to produce huge amount of gas from human excreta, poultry droppings, night soil of goat, sheep etc., rubbish, water hyacinth, or aquatic plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">If each and every family of our country can be connected with biogas plant, 1.03109 cubic meters of gas can be produced every year only from human excreta.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Biogas technology can lessen greatly the difference between urban and rural life.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">If we can arrange for production of biogas, clean fuel, nice light for illuminating houses, and electricity for running TV will be available even in remote villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Adoption of this technology will reduce the pressure on our forest resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">It will be possible to maintain balance of environment, to grow more crops, and over all, we will be able to leave a nice and clean environment for our future generation.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">So, to adopt biogas technology, to expand it and to maintain it are of immense importance.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
