<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-14</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.129</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">223</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2919</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">981</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t61">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Desire to communicate with others is very common.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">To communicate with others man used various methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">In the past man used messengers, horse ridden messengers, even pigeon.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">These methods were time consuming and message could not be sent very far.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">With the invention of electricity means of communication has been easy and fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">With the passing of time man's knowledge increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">People invented various means of communication; rapid progress has been achieved in this field.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Now we see any body, anywhere in the world, talk to any person he wants to.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Messages sent circulates all over the world within a moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Telegraph, Telephone, Radio, TV, Fax, Electronic Mail, Computer, artificial satellite gave immense impetus to the field of communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Below we describe briefly these methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Telegraph: Messages are sent to or taken in by code language with the help of wire is called telegraph.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">An American scientist named Samuel Morse (1791-1872) invented telegraph.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">In 1844 he was able to send message through wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">With dot and dash he expressed all the letters of English alphabet.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">These are known as Morse code after his name.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">A telegraph has usually three parts- transmitter, receiver and relay.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Transmitter : It consists of an electric circuit through which alternately current is sent and stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">By tapping key short sound called Tore and a long sound Takka is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">With these two sounds Morse was able to express all the letters of English alphabet.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Receiver (sounder) : In the receiver an electromagnet and an armature receive the sound of the transmitter.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">When the key of the transmitter is closed, current flows to electromagnet of the receiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">As a result it attracts the armature which hits a metal plate and a sound is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Again when the key is opened, current stops;</sent>
				<sent id ="25">armature is pulled by a spring which comes back and hits another metal plate and sound is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">In this way receiver receives sound sent by transmitter.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Relay : Relay amplify the sound sent by transmitter.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">When telegraph line is extended to long distance, the sound received becomes feeble.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">To make the sound audible relay works.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">It is a device by which communication between people at a distance can be done through cable wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Alexander Graham Bell is the inventor of telephone.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Telephone has two main parts transmitter and receiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Besides these two connecting cables and d.c.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">source are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Transmitter: It has a metal plate called diaphragm.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">If you speak before a diaphragm it starts vibrating.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">This vibration goes to a box containing carbon granules and carbon particles are pressed when the diaphragm moves forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">As the diaphragm comes back the pressure on the carbon granules is released and they become isolated.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">This variation of pressure starts a variable flow of current in the transmitter.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">This variable current represents the sound said by the speaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Receiver : In the receiver also there is a diaphragm and a coil wound over a permanent horseshoe magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The diaphragm is lightly attached to the magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">As the diaphragm moves forward in the transmitter large current comes to the receiver coil which strengthens the magnet in the receiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The magnet strongly attracts the plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">When small current flows to receiver, the magnet becomes weak and attracts plate rather feebly.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Thus the variable current of the transmitter vibrates the plate in the receiver exactly as it was vibrated by sound in the transmitter.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Hallo said in the transmitter is heard hallo sound in the receiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">You must have noticed the digits 0,1,2 9 written on the telephone set.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">By pressing or rotating these numbers telephone call is made and people start talking.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Two processes are followed in telephone talking- in analog system sound is directly converted into electricity (ii) in digital system sound is converted into electricity and is then transformed into digital form and sent.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Now-a-days digital telephone system is largely used.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The advantages are, it is easy to send and can easily be connected to computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Now telephone without wire-- cordless telephone is used also.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Here sitting at a long distance from the telephone set call may be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Again, telephone system uses two procedures to send calls.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">One call is made through an exchange centre and in the other the call is directly sent to the receiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">In case of call through exchange, the operator at the exchange first takes the call and sends it to the particular people.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">By this system telephone call can be made to remote small township area.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The system is also called trunk call.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">In the second system a call is made directly to people concerned by dialing.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Anyone now-a-days can call from Dhaka to important cities of the world by dialing directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">This is known as ISD or international subscriber dialing.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Besides, through NWD or nation wide dialing one can speak to people living in Upazila area by dialing directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Thus the whole telephone system is rapidly progressing as if the world is in our grip.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Italian Scientist Marconi invented radio first.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">But it is also known that Bangali Scientist Sir Jagdish Chandra Bose and Russian Scientist Alexander Popov also invented radio at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">While we were discussing sound, we saw that sound is a kind of wave which goes through some material medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">But there are other kinds of wave too, such as heat wave, light wave, radio wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">These waves are called electromagnetic radio wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">They move faster and do not require any medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">So if sound is converted into electromagnetic radio wave it may be sent anywhere in the world with the speed of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Radio communication has two important parts- wave transmission and wave reception.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In wave transmission system sound is converted into radio wave and is then sent all around the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">In the receiving system the wave is detected and is reconverted into sound wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Generally radio means the receiving instrument.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">A kind of radio tube or valve is the main component of radio communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The discovery of transistor has largely reduced the use of radio tube also called electron tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Transistors are small in size, take small electricity and work efficiently.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The principle of radio communication is to produce powerful electromagnetic wave which carries sound wave and is then sent to space.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">In the latter stage the wave is detected and weak sound wave is separated from the carrier wave and amplified.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">A loud speaker then reconverts it to sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Radio transmitting centres produce high frequency electromagnetic wave and send the wave in all directions in the space by an antenna.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Below is shown by block diagram sending and receiving principle of a sound signal.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">In this diagram we see microphone converts sound (speech, music etc.) into electric current which is mixed with the powerful electromagnetic wave used as the carrier wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The two waves are amplified and through an antenna this wave is sent in space with velocity of light- 3 lac km per second.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">This wave when comes in contact with a radio antenna, it receives a small portion of it and sends it to an amplifier.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Here both the carrier and sound waves are amplified.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Then they are separated and sound wave is fed to the speaker after amplification.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Everyday different radio stations go on air at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">But by a mechanism called tuning only the desired station can be heard.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">For radio transmission two types of wave are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">They are short wave and medium wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Wave length of a wave has a relation with frequency, which is the number of vibration per second.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Wave of longer wavelength has smaller frequency and wave of shorter wavelength has greater frequency.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The product of wavelength and frequency is always fixed and is equal to the speed of the wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">So the wavelength and frequency of a radio wave could be calculated if one of them is known.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Problem : A certain radio station goes on air at wavelength 250 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">What is the frequency of the wave?</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Radio programme of a nearer station can be heard by medium wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">But to listen distant station short wave becomes necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Short wave is reflected from an obstacle.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">In uper atmosphere there is a layer of ions known as ionosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Short waves are reflected from this ion sphere and is detected in the radio.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">If a radio station is owned by government as in our country there are specialists, technicians and other workers to use it and look after it.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Radio receiver is used by listener.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">So it is his responsibility to maintain it.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Dust enters into the radio and deposits as carbon particle at connecting points.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Thus slowly radio goes out of order.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">So it should be cleaned regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Separate aerial connection make the radio voice clear and conspicuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Television is a wonderful invention of science.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">We see picture along with the voice of the speaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Doesn't it seem unbelievable?</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Scottish scientist Lozy Baird has the credit of sending and receiving picture from a distance first in 1926.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">To send sound and picture from television transmitting station two separate instruments are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">One of the instrument converts picture into electric signal and then sends it as electromagnetic wave to distant places.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Television camera does the work of converting picture to electric signal.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Any picture that goes through the lens of the camera to its screen becomes an electric signal and ultimately goes to surrounding space as electromagnetic wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The other transmitting instrument sends sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">A microphone does this work.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">There is a light diaphragm in a box containing carbon particle.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Sound vibrates this diaphragm and a variable current is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This signal goes to air by powerful electromagnetic wave through an antenna.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Our television in the house is a receiving machine of the picture and sound which are in air as electromagnetic waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Two separate systems work for picture and sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Our TV antenna catches a small part of electromagnetic wave sent by the transmitting station.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">If our TV set is tuned at the same channel as the transmitting channel, then our set receives the signal.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Sound part of it goes to a loud speaker after being detected and amplified successively.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The picture part of the signal received goes through a rectifier which separates picture from the carrier wave, and sends to amplifier for amplification.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This amplified picture e.m. wave now is fed to a an electron gun situated at the back of the picture tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Electron gun then throws electrons on the picture tube and a picture is seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Front part of the picture tube is the screen on which we see the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">There is a coating of phosphor at the back side of the picture tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The phosphor coating has such characteristic that when electron falls on it from the electron gun it produces bright, less bright, dark spot by which a picture is made.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">So we see a vivid picture of the scene sent from the transmitting TV station.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">A black and white television has been described above.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">To give a picture its natural colour, some additional machinery is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">In a colour television, there are three electron tubes for each of three fundamental colours- red, violet, green.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The receiving set also has three electron guns.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The TV screen is also coated with three kinds of phosphor granules.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">A certain colour only produces spot of that colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">As a result we see on the screen all three colours, red, violet and green at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Mixing these colours a great variety of coloured pictures can be produced on the screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Fax plays an important role in sending and receiving news.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">By fax written statement can be sent to any desired place.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Say, a written statement on one page is to be sent from Dhaka to Tokyo.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">When the written page is entered in a fax machine the exact picture of the written letters reaches Tokyo by its transmitting system.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The receiving system at Tokyo then receives it and through printer machine gives an exact copy of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Fax is a contracted word of Faxcimile.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">This machine works by micro-wave and a satellite.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">It can be used as telephone, copier, recorder etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The speed of the system can be varied.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Its efficiency and speed are increasing as the technique improves.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Electronic mail or simply e-mail works like a fax machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">But it is connected with a computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Voluminous news, lots of information can be exchanged by this system.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The data to be sent is gathered in a file of the computer and is sent by modem of the computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Modem is an english word which means modulation and demodulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Any information sent at distant place by mixing it with microwave is called modulation and from a modulate data information separation from micro wave is called demodulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">To send mail or to receive mail computer is used at both sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Information is saved in the computer and is read as and when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">E-mail has got the following advantages over telephone or other communications media.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Much information can be sent or received in a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">From memory of the computer the information can be printed again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Mail can be stored.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">News can be edited by word processing.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">News can be sent by telex or fax.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The cost is comparatively low.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Fax type e-mail is very much popular because high quality reproduction is possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Memorandum, documents, sketch etc. can easily be sent and received.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The one invention that has opened the ways to vast opportunity is the computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It has paved the way of immense development.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Computer means counting or accounting.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">So, ordinarily computer is a machine by which accounting is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Computer can perform large complex account.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In addition, it is used to do a lot of things.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">It is not a single machine but a collection of machines.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Therefore it is called computer system.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">To make it more efficient, powerful and fit for multifarious work, vigorous researches are going on.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">It is hoped that in future computer will have intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Effort to use organic compounds in its memory is being tried.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">For ordinary accounting work a computer is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Special parts may be added if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">These are called general computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The computers which are used for special purpose like operation of space ship or controlling speed of missiles etc. are called special purpose computers.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Computer is again classified into three categories depending on its construction and nature of use.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">On the basis of size, weight, skill and nature of work, different types of computer have been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The structure of computer : The structure of a computer is a subject to be well understood by computer engineers.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">But we should know its outer structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The machines, components, device which have size, shape, and can be touched, eyed, heard all are hardware.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">They are used to organize computer system.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">These are called hardware.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The hardwares are interdependent.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">They can not do anything by themselves but their proper adjustment is necessary for the working of computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">To make hardware ready for work, the necessary instructions or the programmes are called software.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Software drives the computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Hardware consists of five component parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">I. National work such as publication of public examination result, census, agriculture census etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">In such work huge numbers of data are to be handled.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">If they are done manually a long time will be needed whereas a computer can do it correctly in very little time.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">If correct data are fed into a computer with proper programming, it produces accurate result.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Man can do mistake but a computer does not; So to finish a work rapidly and accurately we use computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Computer can store huge data in a small place.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Billions of data are stored in a big computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Man gets tired after working for some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">But a computer can work continuously day after day but is not tired.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Computer performs complex work; risky work is done by it.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Say, in atomic reactor where radioactivity is present, human life is not safe, but with the help of a computer work can be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">For rapid radio wave communication with countries of the world satellite is used now-a-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Satellite is a natural object revolving round any planet.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">As for example, the earth is a planet and the moon revolving round earth is a satellite.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Planet mars has two satellites named Fobo and Dimos.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">But for radio wave communication satellite used is artificial.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">They are man made moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The far off natural satellite are not suitable for communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Therefore scientists have devised artificial satellite for communication convenience.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">These satellites revolve in a fixed orbit in space round the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">They are playing an important role in sending and receiving news and other items from one end to the other end of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Artificial satellite in space reflects radio waves and thus television programmes of far-off counties are also being heard and seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">If an artificial satellite is placed at 35880 km above earth's surface then it takes same time to revolve around as taken by earth and so the satellite appears fixed in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The radio and television programmes reach all places of the world if three mutually equidistant satellites are placed above the equator of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">By such process now telephonic conversation and television programme are taking place.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The picture of astronaut walking on moon's surface or Olympic games and sound of music are being seen and heard by people of different countries at the same time.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
