<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-geo-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.558</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">225</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2815</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">797</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t76">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The boundless sky is all around our abode, the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This vast infinite sky is called the firmament or the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">However, the scientists term it as a place where all the particles and energy of the universe are concentrated or floating.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The space has no beginning or end.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">There are infinite number of luminaries in the firmament.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">If we look at this infinite space, we see the sun at day time and at night we see innumerable dots of light including the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">These luminaries are revolving on their own axis with a particular speed in a very disciplined manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The sun is a star and the moon is a satellite.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">These stars and their planets and satellites are called the luminaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Previously only the bright objects found in the space were called the luminaries but now the existence of many objects that do not give light have been discovered.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Nowadays luminaries include the moon, the sun, planets, stars, meteors, comets and besides, faded nebulae, pulser, Black Dwarf, Black Holes are also included.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">All these have formed the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Stars : If we look at the blue and bright night sky, we see many dots of light twinkling.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">There are many such luminaries in the firmament which are called the stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">We can see only a few thousands of stars with our naked eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Some of this can be seen from earth with the help of powerful telescope.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The scientists, with the help of powerful telescope have discovered more than 100 crores of such stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The stars are actually burning gaseous mass.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Every star has its own light and heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">On looking from the earth, the stars seem to exist in same plane.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The distance of the stars from the earth is measured by the velocity of the light.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The unit of measurement from the earth to the stars or from stars to stars is called light years.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Since the sun is the near most star, its distance from the earth is about 15 crore kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">A ray of light from the sun takes 8 minutes 19 seconds to reach the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The star next to the sun is Proxima Centauri.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">It is about 38,00,000 crore kilometres from the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Scientific discoveries have enhanced our knowledge about the stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Some of the stars are round, some are spiral or lineal while some others are shapeless.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The density of Black Dwarf and Black Hole is very high and their gravitational force is also very strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Constellation : Looking at the cloudless sky in a dark night, one can see a number of stars clustered together.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">These are called constellations.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The astronomers in the past, connecting every individual constellation with imaginary lines and imagining different figures, gave them strange names.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Of them, the names of Great Bear, Orion, Cassiopeia, Little Bear, Canis Major, Eridanus etc. are worth mentioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Galaxies : Billion of stars, dusts and huge pool of vapour have formed clusters of luminaries which are called galaxy or the universe of stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">There are innumerable galaxies in the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Galaxies are far apart from each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The milky way is a small part of a galaxy.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The Milky Way : The cluster of stars that look like a brightly illuminated long pathway extending from north to south in the dark sky is called the milky way.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">A milky way is formed of millions of stars, some scientists take it to be a huge circular region.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Some other scientists consider it to be a coiled up hard nebulae.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Looking at the clear and cloudless night sky in winter, one would see a long line of translucent and radiant lustre of light with a wide vicinity extended north to south.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">That is known as the milky way.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Our solar system including the sun is included in one of such a milky way.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The sun is positioned among billions of stars in this milky way.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Nebulae : The covering of the dimly lit stars in the space is called the nebulae.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">They are visible with naked eyes or with powerful telescopes.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Some of the nebulae are full of gaseous bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">They have strong forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">These are called gaseous nebulae.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The scientists think that many nebulae are far away from our milky way.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">One nebulae may contain billions of stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Since the nebulae are billions and billions of light years away from the earth, the stars between them cannot be identified separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The milky way is in the same plane with the nebulae.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Meteors : Sometimes in the cloudless night sky it looks as if a star is running about or a star has just dropped off.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">This event is known as drop off of a star.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">These are not actually stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">They are called meteors.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Innumerable physical masses float in the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The gravitional force causes these physical masses rush towards the earth with a violent speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">When they come in touch with air, the friction with air makes them flare up.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Majority of the meteors are small in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Comets : Sometimes a kind of luminaries appear in the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">They exist for a short period and then disappear.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">They are called comets.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Comets are amazing celestial body.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">They revolve a long way around a star.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">When they come near the sun, they become visible in the form of cloud.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Gradually, the bright centre point looms like hair veiled in mist.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Then comes out as a long steamed tail just like a bright broom.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The English word comet has been derived from the Greek word Komet that means dishevelled hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Comets exist in the solar system.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The astronomer, Edmund Halley observed that the comets follow the law of gravitation in the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The comet he discovered is known as Halley's Comet which appears every 75 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Halley's comet appeared in 1759, 1835, 1910 and 1986.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Planets : Some celestial bodies revolve round the sun as a result of the gravitional force.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They have no light of their own.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">All of them rotate round the sun and get light and heat from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">They do not twinkle in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">These luminaries are called planets.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The Earth, Mars, Venus, Saturn, Mercury, Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune are the eight planets of our solar system.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Satellites : Some luminaries are caused by the gravitational force to rotate around a planet.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">They are called satellites.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">They have no light or heat of their own but they get light and heat from the sun or stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The moon is the only satellite of the planet earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Every planet may not have satellite.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Mercury and Venus have no satellite.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The satellites of the Saturn are the highest in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The huge universe beyond our vision is called the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The space is so huge that it is very difficult for us to conveive it.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">There are stars, comets, planets, satellites, meteors and other heavenly bodies in the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The universe is formed of these innumerable celestial bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The sun is considered as a star of the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The solar system includes the sun, its planets and satellites, billions of meteoroids and thousands of comets (Fig. .</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The sun is the centre around which all other members of the solar system revolve.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">All the activities of the solar system centre around the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The solar system is quite small compared to the vastness of the amazing universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The earth is quite insignificant.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The solar system is many billion times larger than the earth in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The solar system also includes various gaseous substances and dust particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The gravitional force of the sun make all the planets, satellites, comets and meteors to rotate around the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The solar system is many times larger in area than the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Sun : The sun is actually, a star.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It is a yellow coloured star of moderate size among the billions of stars in the milky way.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Its diameter is 13 lakh and 84 thousand kms.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">and mass is nearly 1.99 1013 kilograms.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Of all the luminaries in the solar system, the sun has a very important place.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Our relationship with the sun is very close.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The sun is a heated star.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The temperature at the centre of the sun is about 150,000,000 Celsius and at the surface it is about 6,000 Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It is the source of light and heat of the earth but also of other planets and satellites.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The earth would have been eternally dark without sun light.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">There would be no pulsation of life and no animal or plant would live in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The planets of the solar system are arranged according to their distance from the sun such as Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Of all the planets, Jupiter is the largest and the Mercury, the smallest.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Mercury : Mercury is the smallest planet of the solar system.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">It is nearest to the sun from where the average distance is 58 crore kilometres and the diameter of this planet is 4,850 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The planet takes 88 days to rotate once round the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">So, for Mercury 88 days make a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It takes 58 days and 17 hours to revolve round its own axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">So, one day of Mercury is equivalent to our 58 days and 17 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The temperature of the planet is very high because of its closeness to the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The metals like zinc or lead dissolves into vapour in such temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">There is no atmosphere in Mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">There is no cloud, rain, wind or water and hence life is non-existent in this planet.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The picture that was sent by the space craft Mariner-10 in 1974 shows that the surface of the Mercury is quite similar to that of the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It is rugged and full of holes.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">There are innumerable hills and plain lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Mercury has no satellite.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Venus : You must have heard about the morning star or the evening star and might have seen it too.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Venus is, in fact, not a star.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">It glows in the sky like a star which prompts us to call it a star.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Venus is covered under dense cloud.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Naturally, the sun is never visible from its surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The sun is 108 crore kilometres from Venus.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The Venus is the nearest planet to the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">There is little difference of light between day and night.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The dense cloud in Mercury is formed of carbon dioxide cloud.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The rain that falls here is actually acid rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The diameter of the Mercury is 12,104 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">It takes 225 days for the Venus to revolve round the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Venus rotates on its axis very slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The sun rises twice and sets twice in the sky of Venus.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Venus has no satellite.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Earth : Earth is the third closest planet to the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The average distance of the earth from the sun is 15 crore kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Its diameter is nearly 12,667 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The earth takes 23 hours 56 minutes and 4 seconds to rotate on its own axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The earth takes 365 days 5 hours 48 minutes 47 seconds to revolve round the sun once.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">So, one year is equivalent to 365 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The moon is the single satellite of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The earth is the only planet in whose atmosphere there is existence of required oxygen, nitrogen and temperature that is necessary for the survival of plants and animals in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Hence, the earth is considered as the most important planet of the solar system.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Mars : The orbit of the earth is next to earth in the solar system.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Its diameter is about 6,787 kilometres which is half of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The average distance of this planet is 22.8 crore kilometres from the sun and 7.7 crore kilometres from the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Mars has two satellites.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">One of them is Phobos and the other is Deimos.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The day and night in Mars are nearly the same as that of the earth is respect of period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The earth takes 365 days to revolve round the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Whereas the Mars takes 687 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The planet takes 24 hours and 37 minutes to rotate on its own axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">There are gorges and volcanoes in the surface of the Mars.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The planet has little oxygen and water but the quantity of carbon dioxide is so high that the existence of life is not possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The planet looks reddish since the rocks became rusty getting in contact with oxygen as the available reports show.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Asteroids : There is no planet within a distance of 56.31 crore kilometres from Mars.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">There are many little luminaries in this vast space.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">All these luminaries having a diameter ranging from 1.6 kilometres to 805 kilometres are called Asteroids.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The scientists have identified the orbits of thousands of Asteroids.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">As all these remain in a group, hence called Asteroids.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Jupiter : Jupiter is called the king of the planets because it is the largest planet.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Its diameter is 1,42,800 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It is 1,300 times larger than the earth in area.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Its mass is twice as much as any other planet in the solar system.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">This Planet is 77.8 crore kilometres from the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The temperature of the surface of atmosphere is very low but in the interior, it is quite high.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The average temperature is 125 Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Jupiter takes nearly 12 years to revolve round the sun but it takes 9 hours 53 minutes to rotate on its own axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">So in one day as of our earth, the sun rises twice and sets twice in this planet.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The scientists have discovered, so far, 16 satellites.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Of these, Lo, Uropa, Ganimed and Callistro are the major satellites.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The scientists think that heavy atmosphere exists here.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Saturn : Saturn is the second largest planet of the solar system.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The sun is 143 crore kilometres away from Saturn.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">It is actually a huge gaseous globe and its diameter is 1,20,000 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Saturn is 760 times greater than that of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Saturn takes 29 years and 5 months to revolve round the sun once but rotates on its own axis in 10 hours 40 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">There are thousands of rings surrounding the Saturn having different colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Saturn has 22 satellites outside its ring.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Of these Titan, Hua, Dion, Capitus and Tethris are remarkable.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The surface of the Saturn remains covered by ice.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The atmosphere contains hydrogen, a mixture of helium, methane and ammonia gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Uranus : Uranus is the third largest planet.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">In order of distance from the sun its place is seventh.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">It is located at a distance of 287 crore kilometres from the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The planet takes 84 years to complete a single rotation round the sun but it takes only 10 hours 49 minutes to rotate on its own axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Its diameter is nearly 49,000 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">It is very light because it is formed of light substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The atmosphere contains high percentage of methane.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Average temperature 170 Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Recently, scientists have discovered some rings round this planet, but these rings are not bright.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Uranus has 5 (five) satellites such as Mirinda, Ariel, Ambriel, Titania and Oberon.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Neptune : In order of distance from the sun, Neptune is placed in 8th position.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">It is about 450 crore kilometres from the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">This planet has got feeble light and heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Neptune in area is equivalent to 72 earths and 17 earths in mass.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Its Diameter is 48,400 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The atmosphere which is formed of the mixture of gas mainly methane, ammonia and other gases.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">This planet was first sighted by the scientists in It has two satellites such as Triton and Neroid.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Moreover, two rings have been recently discovered to exist round this planet.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Luminaries : The planets, stars, satellites, comets, meteors, pulsar, Black Dwarf, Black Holes that exist in boundless space are called the Luminaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Stars : At night and clear sky, the luminaries that twinkle in the space are called stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Nebulae : The covering of the dimly lit stars in the space are called nebulae.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The Milky Way : The brightly, illuminated long pathway running from north to south formed by cluster of stars is called the milky way.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Comets : Sometimes a kind of luminaries appear in the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">They exist for a short period and then disappear.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">They are known as comets.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Halley's comet appear in the sky every 75 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Planets : The celestial bodies having no light or heat of their own revolve round the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">They are called planets.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The earth, mercury, saturn etc. are the planets.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Satellite : The celestial bodies that revolve round a planet are satellites.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The moon is a satellite.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The Solar System : The family of celestial bodies that include the sun and its planets, satellites, asteroids, comets, and meteors is called the solar system.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">There are eight planets in the solar system.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">They are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
