<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-16</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.178</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">193</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2781</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">967</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t63">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Beautification is an eternal habit of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">From the very ancient periods men used to apply ointments on their faces and on special parts of the body to increase the beauty, for religious reasons, in wars, and many festivals and to protect the skin from excessive cold or heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The materials which are used to take special care of skin are generally named as cosmetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">In ancient Greece, Egypt and Indian sub-continent these cosmetics were made mainly from the vegetable and animal sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">For example, turmeric, powdered pulse, nyme leaves, wax, different kinds of oil, milk fat, green coconut water, egg, sandal wood etc. are collected from vegetables and animal sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Some materials from mineral sources viz water, soil, cucumber, fuller's earth etc. are also used as cosmetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The substances which are used to take care of health, i.e different parts of body such as skin, hair, nail, face, eye etc. and beautify these limbs by making soft and attractive are called cosmetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">We are familiar with various types of cosmetics like different perfumes removed to add odor, antiseptic substances, face powder, lipstick, shampoo, oil, emulsion cream, tooth paste.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">From ancient period substances from vegetables, animals and minerals are used to make cosmetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">At present scientists have discovered different kinds of chemicals for making cosmetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">These materials are very useful and essential for the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Different kinds of organic compounds, alcohol, alkali, glycerin, talc, metallic oxides are included in these classes of substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Different kinds of cosmetics are used for different parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Cosmetics are divided into 4 classes on the basis of their utilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Most of the cosmetics are used for skin care.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Skin is the cover of the body, it protects the body from external conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Waste materials from inside the body, sweat comes out through skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Softness, brightness and colour of the skin, are the identity of body beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">So, taking care of skin is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The skin of different parts of the body, outer portion of face, eyes and lips are included in the skin care.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Hence the skin care means to take care of these portions in the body also.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Blusher, face powder, talcum powder, rose, cold cream, vanishing cream, snow, hair remover, suntan lotion, cleansing milk, hand cream, emulsion oil, deodorant, foot powder etc. are the important cosmetics used for hands, foot, skin and face.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Emulsion oil, cream, lotions are milk like white made by mixing of water with oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">These substances prevent loss of water from the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Hand cream prevents dryness which is caused by sunlight and air.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Even it protects skin from alkali like materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Foundation powder and rose which are used as make up, contain chalk, talc, zinc oxide, titanium, kaolin, oil and water emulsion, magnesium stearate and different dyeing agents.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Suntan lotion or cream contains such chemicals which filters the sunlight so that the skin is protected from harmful rays.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Vanishing cream removes the spots and dust particles from the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Blusher produces rose colour on the face.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Eye shadow, eye liner, mascara etc. are used to take care of eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Mascara is used for dyeing eye lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Eye shadow is used on the upper surface of eyelid.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Eye shadow of different colours make the eyes to look beautiful and it protects the eyes from the intensity of sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Lipstick, lips-lotions are used to increase of beauty of lips.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Lipsticks are made by grease and red or rose colouring agents with titanium oxide along with a solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">As a result, lipstick prevents lips from drying and thus increases its beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Talcum powder is used after taking bath to prevent skin from moisture and sweating.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">This is a slippery material and prevents infection due to friction between two organisms of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">High quality talcum powder is slippery and brightened white in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The main constituent of talcum powder is talc.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Besides, zinc steerage and magnesium steerage is used to make it more slippery.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Zinc steerage is a soft antiseptic.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Sometimes boric acid is also used as antiseptic.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The proportion stearic acid is to be 4 to 10% in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Calcium carbonate or magnesium carbonate is used to inflate the powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">These hold the perfumes to the powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Little amount of perfume is mixed with magnesium carbonate and is kept for some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Then it is mixed thoroughly with talc.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Afterwards the mixture is sieved by a fine clean cloth or a strainer.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Finally it is packed in the container for marketing.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Baby powder is not same as the powder used for the adults.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Because the skin of the baby is soft and sensitive.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">For this, the components of baby powder vary from the components of talcum powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">In making baby powder an extra antiseptic substance and very light perfume are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Zinc stearate and magnesium stearate increase water absorption capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Hence these two components are used by proportion from 3 to 5%.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">For this the powder becomes very fine, slippery and gains the property of adhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Lithium stearate or olive oil is also used instead of zinc stearate.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">2 to 5% zinc oxide, 0.5 to 1.5% boric acid makes the powder more graceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Cream is a half dense material like butter which is mainly prepared by mixing water with oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Generally there are two types of cream; one is cleaning or massage type and other is coating type.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Many creams contain both the two properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The cream of first category becomes short lasting on the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">But due to massage with this on the skin, body and mind become fresh, lively and animated.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Generally conifer oil, oil containing camphor, rosemary oil, lavender oil, spike oil, eucalyptus oil, thyme oil and petit grain oil and about 0.2% to 0.5% perfume are used for the preparation of cream.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Cream of second category has long lasting effect on the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">This keeps the skin soft and delicate.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Different types of cold cream, vitamin cream and hormone cream are included in this category.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">It contains wax and cod liver oil among the constituents.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Vanishing cream when massaged on the skin apparently disappears.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">It forms a dry but adhesive coating on the skin, due to this a dry feeling is developed on the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It is comfortable to use in summer season.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">This cream is very suitable for oily skin and it saves the pores in the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The constituents of vanishing cream are water, glycerin, stearic acid, wax and different kinds of perfumes.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The using of perfume in vanishing cream has to be very careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Some substances like indole, vaniline, engyl etc. damage the white colour of the cream.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">For this, these constituents are avoided and instead of them geranium, boees, de-rose, sandal wood, patchuli, long-long, lavender, linalool, polyethyl alcohol are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Take the constituent of A and B in two separate container and these are to be heated at temperature of 75 to 85oC.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The constituent of B is to be decanted slowly with constant stirring into A.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Then 0.5% perfume is to be added in it when the temperature falls down at 35oC.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">In this stage 0.02% propyl para-hydroxy benzoate and 0.15% methyl para hydroxy benzoate may be added to preserve.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Finally this is packed into tubes or small containers and marketed.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Hair is our valuable asset.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Brain is the most important organ of our body and its cover is called coroty or skull.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">This coroty is covered by hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Hair saves our head from heat and cold; sand and dust; as well as it increases the beauty of body.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Dirty and unclean hair makes different diseases like scabies, dandruff, ulcer and various skin diseases which are harmful to our health.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">So it is our duty to take care of our hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">We use soap or shampoo for taking care of our hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Soap produces a thin film on the hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Soap contains excess of alkaline substance due to which soap is not considered as a cosmetic.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">These include different types of hair oil, hair tonic, hair lotion, soap free shampoo, pomed etc. Shampoo is actually scented detergent.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">It increases the brightness of hair and improves the health of hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Besides, resin based spray, pomed, alcohol based lotions and hair conditioners prevent to damage hair, resist to have grayed and remove dandruff.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Some chemical compounds make hair curling.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">These are called hair wave preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">On the other hand some chemicals are also used to make curled hair straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Besides these, different hair dye or coalup is used for colouring the hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">In the past, these dyes or hair colouring materials were harmful for health even for hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Now-a- days, many high quality hair dyes have been prepared which are not harmful; even it brings the natural colour of hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">For taking care of hair we mostly use coconut oil and hair oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The main constituents of hair oil are coconut oil, castor oil along with little quantity of perfume and colouring agent.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The constituent materials along with essence and colouring agent are to be mixed thoroughly in a container.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Then the essence and colouring agents are added to the mixture and mixed well again.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Our mouth is the path of taking food.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Food materials, fluid from inside the mouth and different waste materials from the dental ruins produce bad smell in the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">From stomach, stomach disorder, tooth damage this may happen.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">For this, mouth care and tooth care are very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">To take care of tooth and mouth, we usually use different kinds of brushes, tooth powder, tooth paste and mouth wash.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Tooth powder is used to clean the tooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Tooth powders are of two types.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Black coloured tooth powder and white tooth powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The main constituent of black tooth powder is wood charcoal.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Moreover it contains potash alum, camphor, tannic acid, eucalyptus oil, menthol oil and glycerin.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The main constituent of white tooth powder is chalk powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Besides, magnesium carbonate, sodium perborate, sodium bi carbonate, soap powder, sugar, methyl salicylate, menthol, clove oil and peppermint etc. are included in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Glycerin makes the powder sweet and sticky.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The main constituent is wood charcoal or chalk powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">To make it fine powder, sieve it through a thin cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Now the other constituents are to be mixed well with charcoal powder or chalk powder in a container and stirred well with a piece of leather or stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Then camphor is to be dissolved with charcoal powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Tannic acid, eucalyptus oil and menthol oil are to be mixed in same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Alum is to be mixed after heating.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Last of all essence is to be mixed in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Heat a mixture of glycerin and water in a container by the ratio 1:When it begins to boil then heating is stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Then add gum tragacanth slowly and stir continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Afterwards it is cooled down for 24 hours and sieves it on a muslin cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Chalk powder and di calcium phosphate are mixed well in a separate container.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Mixture of saccharin, water and glycerin mucilage are heated up to 100oC temperature and the mixture of chalk powder and calcium phosphate from second container is then added.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Heating is continued till the mixture becomes homogenous, more water is added slowly for cooling down the mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">In this stage menthol and peppermint oil are added.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The mixture is continuously stirred to cool it down completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It is kept untouched for two days.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">So, tooth paste is prepared in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Tooth paste and tooth powder are our daily used toiletries.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Everyday after leaving the bed, before going to bed at night and after taking meal, sufficient amount of tooth powder or tooth paste is taken on a soft brush or in finger and teeth are to be brushed and mouth washed.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">This will keep teeth and mouth germ free and free from bad smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Health and mind will remain fresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Materials that prevent production and growth of bacteria on living cells are called antiseptic materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">It prevents infection when it is applied on skin and mucous membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">These substances are to be strong enough to fight against the bacteria and at the same time it is to be mild and acceptable to the body cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Antiseptic and antibiotic are not the same things.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Antiseptic is a preventive made from chemical compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Antibiotic is a preventive which is produced from living molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Antibiotics destroy the bacteria in an infected area and cure the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Surgeons prior to operations use antiseptics to clean their hands, operational equipments and skin of the patients.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Doctors spray antiseptics in severe ulcer to prevent infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Antiseptic is used as first aid for injuries.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">There are various types of antiseptics in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">These include cream, mouth wash, ointment, powder, liquid spray etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Besides, different antiseptics are used in soap and shampoo etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">These chemicals are suitable to fight against bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">These include alcohol, iodine and mercury containing compounds, phenol, sulphur derivatives etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Some antiseptics are available in the market in our country and widely used antiseptics are savlon, detol, M & B antiseptic cream, Oral mouth wash, alum etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Two types of savlon liquid and cream are available in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The constituents of savlon are chlorohexidine gluconate and cetrimide.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">When Savlon cream is lightly massaged or added as coating on the wound, injured or insect bites, it cures quickly and prevents infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Cream is to be used several times in a day until the infection is completely cured.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Liquid savlon has its wide applications.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Cotton or a piece of soft cloth is moistened with savlon mixed with water and applied to cuts, wounds or insect bites.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In maintaining the personal cleanliness such as bath, house-hold washing, washing of bed and dress of patients and of mother after child birth, washing of utensils, floor, bath room etc. water diluted savlon is used in order to keep them clean and germ free.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Liquid dettol is obtained in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The main constituent of dettol is tri- chlorophenol.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Dettol is to be used like savlon by mixing with water in cuts, wound, insect bites.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Besides these, dettol is used in house hold washing, washing cloth of patients and mothers after baby birth, washing utensils, floor, bath room, etc. to keep them clean and germ free.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Dettol and savlon should not be used without mixing with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Doctor's advice should be taken to use these.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Potash alum is aluminium sulphate, potassium sulphate with 24 molecules of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">In our country alum has been used as an antiseptic since very old days.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Potash alum moistened with water is used by rubbing on the cut or wound or potash alum may be dissolved in water and used to the cut.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Required quantity of potash alum is used to make drinking water pure and bacteria free.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">After dissolving the potash alum in water, water is then sieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Many people use potash alum as an after-shave lotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Potash alum also stops bleeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Cosmetics are mainly the mixtures of different chemical constituents.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Using of these constituents in an appropriate quantity keeps different parts of the body clean, protects and nourishes body cells and increases the beauty of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">But excessive use of cosmetics may cause inflammation of the cell, may cause different skin diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Due to the use of cosmetics skin may burn and damage the original brightness of the face.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Ulcer may be produced on the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Excessive use of hair cosmetics may cause untimely falling of hair, wound on skin and even whitening of hair may occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The enamel of tooth may be damaged due to excessive use of tooth paste which may produce ulcer in the gum.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Tooth may be lost in early age.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Strong fragrance of cosmetics may be uncomfortable to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Sometimes respiratory organ of the excessive cosmetics users become weaker and even inactive due to strong fragrance.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Hence, we must be very careful in using cosmetics and we should not use excess of cosmetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">We should be careful in using antiseptics such as, using cosmetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Bacterial killer antiseptics have some vital side effect.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Excessive antiseptic harms the tissue cell of the body, produces rash or allergy on the skin even burns the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Specially one should not be careless in using antiseptics and cosmetics on softer portion of the body and for children.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">It is safe to obey the usage printed on the label of the container or as per the advice of the physicians while we use these materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">N.B: The different formula and the method of preparation of different cosmetics described in the chapter have been collected from reliable and dependable sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">In spite of that, the writer will not be held responsible for any personal damage due to the use of cosmetics being prepared following the methods described here.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
