<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-geo-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.941</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">179</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2647</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">902</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t88">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Introduction : Malaysia has been formed of the southern part of South-East Asian Peninsula and Sabah of Borneo Island and Sarawak.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The Malay Peninsula is West Malaysia and Sabah and Sarawak is East Malaysia.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Malaysia is one of the friendly countries of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The people of this country freed themselves from the foreign rule and supremacy and then they have accelerated the pace of economic development by their untiring toil.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Bangladesh is rapidly expanding her economic co-operation with this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Location : The South China Sea is in the north of Malaysia, Celebis Sea in the east.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Java Sea in the south and the Isthmas of Malacca in the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The country is located between 2 South latitude to 8 North latitude, and 100 East longitude to 120 East longitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Area and inhabitants : Malaysia is a country having an area of 3,29,750 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The total population of Malaysia is 2.89 crore and density of population is 79 per square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The state language is Malay.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">People of different religious beliefs such as, Islam, Buddhism, Christianity, Confucianism, Taoism, Sikh, Bahai, Hinduism live in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">However, the majority is Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Physiography : Malaysia is formed of coastal plains while the central region has high plateau.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">There is a narrow plain in the east and west coast of Malaya Peninsula, while the plains in the south coast is relatively broader.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The southern part of the western coast of Sarawak is quite broad and the northern part becomes narrower gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The northern part of Sabah is a wide plain.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">There are only a number of plain lands of considerably large size in mountainous or hilly Malaya Peninsula.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The principal mountainous water-shed is located near the west coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Some of its parts are more than 2,100 metres high.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">There are many mountain ranges parallel to the coastline.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The land in the western part of the principal water-shed is undulatory and fertile and has been developed considerably.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">But the eastern part of the same water-shed is forest covered mountainous land and less developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The principal mountain ranges of the Malaya Peninsula are extended from north to south and is mainly formed of granite rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">But some of the mountains in the east are formed of quartzite and shale.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">However, there are some regions formed of limestone with steep flank in the west of the peninsula.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The small basins formed of new rocks are found here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">One of such basins can be found near Kuala Lampur.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The regions of Sabah and Sarawak of North Borneo may be divided into three parts such as the coastal plains, the piedmont regions, and the hilly regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Alluvial soil has formed the coastal plains and small hills have made up the piedmont regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The coastal plain is formed of alluvium and the piedmont region is formed of parallel mountain ranges extending from north to south have gradually elevated to a height more than 1,805 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The Kinabalu mountain is 4,050 metres high.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Climate : Malaysia is located in the north of the equator.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Naturally, the climate is equatorial and rain falls the whole year round and most of the rainfall occurs in the form of convection rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Although located in the equatorial region, Monsoon blows over this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The North-East and the South-West Monsoon bring rain in both the seasons of winter and summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The eastern coast of Malaysia is under the direct influence of North-East Monsoon and hence wet season prevails from November to March and flows strongly over the neighbouring seas.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Average rainfall in most of the areas of Malaysian Islands is 2,540 millimetres.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The amount of rainfall increases in some open areas upto 6,860 millimetres but in the covered valleys, the rainfall comes down to 1,524 millimetres.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The average temperature varies from 25 to 27 Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">In the low lying areas, the average temperature is around 27 Celsius throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The west coast of Malaysia is under the influence of Indian Oceanic South-West Monsoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The wet season lasts from May to September.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The western part of Malaysia remains partly outside the direct influence of the wind as Sumatra Island stands as a barrier to the flow of South-West Monsoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">As a result, the strait of Malacca located between the Island of Sumatra and Malaya Peninsula remains relatively calm.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">For this, it has actually accelerated the economic growth of this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The change of the direction of the windflow occurs during the months of April and October.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Average temperature in the north coastal area of Sabah remains at 27 Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Two seasons prevail there one during October to April when there occurs heavy rainfall under the influence of North-East Monsoon, the other one during May to September when relatively dry weather prevails.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">January and February are the time for heavy rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Natural vegetation : Natural vegetation of Malaysia is dense and evergreen.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">This forest extends from sea plain to the high mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">There is huge aquatic mangrove forest in the west coast plain of Malaya Peninsula and a narrow ring Cassiua Bina tree of tamarisk group in sandy shore of east coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">In the equatorial forest of this country, the tall, straight and branchless trees of different species have a dense growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">About 50 per cent of the trees have a height of more than 30 feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The big trees grow up with a canopy of thick leaves which the rain can penetrate but no sunlight ever reaches the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">As a result, the land under these trees gets less light like twilight.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Under the canopy of thick leaves, there is the under growth of creeper-like plants as well as bamboo and cane.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Since in the equatorial forest, trees of different species have dense growth, one cannot find many trees of a certain species at a particular place.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">So, it is very difficult to collect a great number of tree trunks of a particular species and many trees are destroyed while bringing the trunks out of the forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">It is an economic loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The valuable hard wood trees like Iron wood, Rose wood, Ebony, Mahogany and Rubber are procured from the forest of Malaysia and besides Palm, Bamboo, Malayan cane, Malaccan cane are also collected.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">But the plants of commercial use are not available in abundance in such a natural environment of the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Agriculture : The agricultural system in Malaysia is divided into Indigeneous system of agriculture and Arable agriculture system.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Rice grows in the west coast valleys and east coast of the peninsula.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The farmers grow rice just to meet their own need.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Malaysia imports three eigths (3/8) of its total need of rice from abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Besides, the farmers grow tobacco, camphor, sago, spices, coffee, cocoa, tea and tapioca.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">There is little farming in the areas far from the coast and valleys.The Malaysians live mainly in the village.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The extensive progress in the cities is carried out by the Chinese.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Rubber plantation started in Malaysia in 1895 as an arable system of Agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Rubber is produced commercially in the big farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Rubber plantation is practised in 30 lakh acres of land mainly in the low hilly regions and low plains of the west coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The trees having big trunks are cut down and other plants are burnt to prepare lands for rubber plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Steps have been taken carefully so that soils are not washed out.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">In fact, some other temporary plants are used as cover to check soil erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Rubber cannot be collected from the trees less than 7 years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">One is to wait several more years to get good quality of rubber.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Rubber production in Malaysia has got much importance due to the location of the gardens just in the vicinity of the coast, improved transport system, no impact of tidal water, easy availability of labour force, fast transportation of rubber products to the ports, abundant demand of rubber outside the country etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Of the other arable plants, coconut, palm tree, pineapples and tobacco are worth mentioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The farming of coconut has steadily increased in the sandy areas of the coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The farming of African palm trees producing edible oil has a strong economic possibility.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Comparatively the pineapples are cultivated in the low quality land.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Rubber and tobacco are produced as arable crop in Sabah and Sarawak.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Besides, sago and black pepper are also produced in this part of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Mineral resources : Mineral tin is the principal mineral product of Malaysia.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Vast quantities of tin ore to produce tin are available.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Most of the tin ore available in Malaya are procured from alluvial stratum.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The high quality ore is deposited in the valleys of west coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The procured mineral tin ore sent to Penang for refinement.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The ore is very important for producing tin sheets.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Coal is procured from the ancient lake basins of Malaya Peninsula.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">This coal is used in the railway engine and other self propelled vehicles.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The petroleum fields in the hilly slopes of Sabah have earned considerable importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The important oil fields are located in the anticlines of the folds in the hilly slopes of Sarawak.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Moreover, mineral iron and gold are mined in Malaysia.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Industry : Tin refineries and petroleum production are the chief industries in Malaysia.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">This country has occupied first place in tin production in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Malaysia is famous for small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It is one of the countries in Asia that produces computer parts and electronic goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Transport and communication : Land communications are well developed in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Railway and roads have reached all the places.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Metalled road is about 25,446 kilometres and railway is about 1,488 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Railway lines and roads have connected the rubber plantations, tin, petroleum, coal, gold, mineral iron producing fields, refineries, towns, cities, ports and commercial centres.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The railway lines of this country are connected with that of Thailand.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The sea routes connect the two seperated parts of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Foreign Trade : The most important exportable items of Malaysia are rubber, tin and palm oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">She also exports tobacco, sago, different spices, coconut kernel and oil, coffee and products of cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Recently Malaysia has earned the fame for becoming one of the most industrially advanced countries of Asia by exporting equipments, computer parts, electronic goods and other industrial products.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Rice is the main imported commodity.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Cloth and ready-made garments, paper and medicine are also imported.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Most of the rubber is exported to the United States of America.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Cities, ports and commercial centres : Kuala Lampur is the capital of Malaysia.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Georgetown is the main city of Penang and Penang is one of the main sea ports.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Malacca founded in 1511 is now an old city and has less importance, Sutenham, near Kuala Lampur is an important port.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Clang is the biggest sea port.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Epoh is a tin producing centre and a main city.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Jacelton is the principal city of the west coast of Sabah.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Miri, city of Sarawak is the main centre of oil fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Kuching and Sibu are the important river ports.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Population : High fertility, less mortality and migration are the factors of population growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">This country records 2.24% for the rate of population growth, 27.95% for birth rate, 5.56% for death rate, and 24.70% for child mortality.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Family planning is practised to stabilize population growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Various steps are taken for population control so that birth rate is reduced and family size is kept small.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">These are necessary to achieve planned human resource development.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">59% are Malaya and other native people, 32% are Chinese and 9% are of Indian origin.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">78% of the population are literate of which 86% are males and 70% are females.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">All above the age of 10 years can read and write.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Development trend : The country has been gradually moving ahead since its independence on 31st August, 1957 from British rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The development in agriculture is remarkable.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The government is particularly active in maintaining the trend of growth in industries, especially small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">People actively participate in development programmes.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">According to world population data sheet 2010, the Annual Gross National Income (GNI) of this country was 13,740 US Dollar.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Due to the limited availability of labour force, manpower is imported from friendly countries for employment in agriculture, industries and trade and business.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Many people from Bnagladesh are in employment in Malaysia.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Location and area : Malaysia is an important country of South-East Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The South China, is in its north, the Celebis Sea in the east, Java Sea in the south and the Malacca Strait in the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The area of the country is 3,29,750 square kilometres and population records only 2.89 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The density of population is 79 persons per square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Physiography : The coastal area of Malaysia is plain land and the central region is formed of plateaus.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The main water-shed is located near the west coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The mountain ranges extend from north to south.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">There are coastal plains, hilly slopes and hilly regions in Sabah and Sarawak.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The rivers are not long.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Climate : Malaysia experiences rain throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The strong wind blows over the sea from November to March.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Since the Sumatra Island remains as a barrier to the flow of South-West Monsoon, rainfall is scarce from May to September in the west of Malay Peninsula.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The North-East Monsoon that blows from October to April, causes heavy rainfall in Sabah and Sarawak.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Average temperature varies from 25 to 27 Celsius throughout the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Agriculture : The agriculture system can be divided into Indigeneous system and Arable agriculture system.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Rice is produced in the valleys of west coast and the east coast of Peninsula.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Besides, the farmes grow tobacco, camphor, sago, spices, coffee, cocoa, tea and tapioca.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The farming of rubber has been practised here as an arable system of agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Coconut, palm, pineapple and tobacco are also grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Rubber and tobacco are produced as arable crop in Sabah and Sarawak.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Sago and black pepper are grown in this part.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Mineral resources : Mineral tin is the principal mineral product.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Petroleum is also extracted in the hilly slopes of Sabah.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The oil fields are located in the ring of the hilly slope of Sarawak.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Gold and mineral iron ore are also mined in Malaysia.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Industry : Tin refineries and petroleum productions are the two principal industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Malaysia is also famous for small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It is one of the countries of Asia that produces computer parts and electronic goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Foreign Trade : Rubber, tin and palm oil are the important exportable items.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Besides, tobacco, sago, spices, coconut kernel and oil, coffee, machineries, computer parts and electronic goods are also exported.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Moreover, different types of cottage industry products are other exported goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Of the imported commodities rice, cloth, ready- made garments, paper and medicine are the important ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Population and development trends : The factors of population growth are high fertility, less mortality and migration.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Population growth in Malaysia is stabilized through the adaptation of family planning methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Moreover, in order to achieve planned human resource development, family size is kept small and the birth rate is also kept low by practising various methods of birth control.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The country has been gradually moving ahead since its independence on 31st August, 1957 from British rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The record of development in Malaysia is particularly remarkable in agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">But the government is also keen to keep up the development trend in small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Malaysia is located in the north of the equator.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">There is rainfall in this country in both the seasons in winter and summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The wind blows strongly in the country over the neighbouring seas.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The average temperature various from 25 to 27 Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">By the influence of weather and climate the increase of the birth rate in Malaysia is higher than that of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The govt. of the country has taken various steps to make the population human resources development.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
