<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-13</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.102</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">347</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4702</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1302</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t60">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">You all use electricity to get light in torch, to listen to music in radio, TV, to communicate friends and relatives over phone.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">All these appliances are run by electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">What else you can name things that require electricity?</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Electric light, fan, mills and factories etc. and many other things all depend on electricity for their function.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">You can say our life is controlled by the versatile use of electricity; contribution of electricity is the greatest to our civilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">What is this electricity?</sent>
				<sent id ="7">It is a form of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Let us describe below about the production, properties and uses of electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Electricity : While combing your hair in winter you must have heard crackling noise in comb.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">That comb attracts, small bits of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Why so happens, can you say?</sent>
				<sent id ="12">A comb rubs your hair and produces electricity and this electricity gives power of attraction.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Similarly rubbing glass rod by silk produces electricity also.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Why does rubbing between two things produce electricity?</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The answer to this question is in the constituent of matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Matter is composed of atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Electron, proton and neutron are the constituent particles of atom.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Electron carries negative charge, proton carries positive charge and neutron has no charge.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The number of proton and electron are equal in an atom and therefore the atom as a whole is neutral.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Electron revolves round the nucleus where proton and neutron rest motionless.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Repulsion takes place between revolving electrons and during rubbing one of them may go out of orbit which place is taken by the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Thus one of the bodies loses electron and becomes positively charged and the other gains electron and becomes negatively charged.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">These charges are confined to the body of glass, silk comb.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">So these charges i.e electricity in them is called statical electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">They fly away if by any chance what so ever they get.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Two kinds of electricity: Comb your hair with a comb, then take it to small bits of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">You will see attraction between them.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Now touch comb, your foot remaining on ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Again take it to the bits of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">You will see no- attraction now.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">What's the matter?</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Where the charges have gone?</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Actually when you touched the comb, the charge in them passed through your hand to earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">As a result the comb loses power of attraction.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The electricity in the comb, called statical electricity is not of much use to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Therefore we are not interested in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Give it some chance, it will fly away.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">When charges are in motion they can do much work and we call such moving charge current electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">So you see there are two kinds of electricity-statical electricity and current electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Rubbing produces statical electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Ebonite, plastic, rubber, glass, gataparcha etc. when rubbed by flannel, silk, catskin with hair etc. easily produce electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Properties of electricity: We see two properties: attraction and repulsion.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Two unlike charges attract each other and two similar charges repel each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">By simple experiment we can show these properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Experiment : Take a glass rod; rub it with a silk cloth and suspend it by a silk thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Rubbing makes the glass rod positively charged.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Take another glass rod.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Similarly rubbing it by a silk cloth, take it near the previous one.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">You will see the rods go away from each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The later glass rod is positively charged.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">So like charge repels.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Now an ebonite rod rubbed with flannel is taken to the suspended glass rod.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">They come nearer attraction is there.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Ebonite rod rubbed by flannel gets negative charge.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">So we see unlike charge attracts.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Another ebonite rod rubbed by flannel will repel the previous ebonite rod.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">So there are two kinds of charges also-positive charge and negative charge.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Fig. 14.2: Attraction and repulsion of charges The experiments described above show that the nature of charge produced in glass rod rubbed by silk cloth is opposite in nature of the charge produced in ebonite rod rubbed by flannel.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">These two charges are called positive charge and negative charge.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Current electricity: We use current electricity in our day to day life.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">This electricity lights our house, rotates fan, runs mills and factories and does so many other things that it is not easy to say what it does not.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Now, this current electricity (simply-current) is of two kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The current that flows always in the same direction is called direct current (D.C) and the current that changes direction after regular interval of time when flowing is called alternating current (A.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">C) fig 14.Torch cell gives D.C and generator produces A.C.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">How A.C is produced: We know water flows from higher water level to lower level.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Similarly, charges flow from higher electric pressure point to lower pressure point.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">This flow of charges that changes direction after regular interval of time is the alternating current.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Later in this chapter we will describe a generator (fig-14.16)</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Now we will describe some D.C electric source.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Electric cells are good source of direct current.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Italian scientist Allesandro Volta is the inventor of electric cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">So, according to his name the cell is also called voltaic cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Take some dilute sulphuric acid in a glass pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Two metal plates, one of copper and the other of zinc are partly immersed in it so that the plates do not touch each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Here chemical reaction takes place between zinc plate and sulphuric acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">As a result a potential difference is created between zinc and copper plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">If now the plates are joined externally by a wire, current flows through the wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The flow of current in an ordinary cell does not last long.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Because, due to flow of current some hydrogen gas adheres to copper plate which resists flow of current.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">This defect of the cell is called polarization.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">If the layer of hydrogen gas is brushed off time to time, flow of current starts again.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">During the flow of current, chemical action of the acid with zinc dissolves zinc but copper plate remains unchanged.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">For this, zinc plate is called active plate and the copper plate is called non- active plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The outer end of copper plate becomes positive and outer end of zinc becomes negative.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Instead of copper and zinc some times zinc and carbon or zinc and platinum are also used to make a cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Again, instead of sulphuric acid other acids may be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Even copper sulphate solution or common salt solution is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">In this kind of cell chemical energy is converted into electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">When one or more chemical compounds are exhausted by chemical reaction no more current is obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In Daniel cell, Leclench cell etc. copper sulphate solution, manganese dioxide etc. are used to avoid polarization.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Dry cell is used in torch and transistor radio.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In this cell chemical components that are used are not in liquid form, instead they are in dry form.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">So, the name is dry cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The cell is a zinc cylinder in which a paste made of sodium chloride, coal dust, manganese dioxide and little water are introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">A carbon rod with a brass cap is so placed in them that the rod does not touch zinc cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">A layer of pitch or sealing wax covers the upper end of the cylinder with the brass cap coming out.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The zinc cylinder is surrounded on all sides by a hard paper bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Here the zinc cylinder is negative plate and carbon with brass cap is the positive plate of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Dry cell is essentially a modified Leclenchs cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Manganese dioxide is used here to prevent polarization.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The cell supplies current at 1.5 volt electric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">All these four effects of current can be shown easily by an experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Experiment: Take some salt water in a beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Immerse two carbon rods partly in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Take care that the rods do not touch each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Now, on a soft iron bar wound insulated copper wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Connect electrically one (upper) end of a carbon rod with one end of the wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The other end of the wire is joined to a battery, then to a switch, to a light bulb and finally to the other carbon rod.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Now complete the electric circuit by closing the switch.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">You will see light is on and the bulb is hot soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Also it is seen that soft iron bar has become a magnet and is attracting pins; gas gathered at carbon electrode.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">So we have found all the four effects mentioned above displayed by current in this experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Now let us see how these effects work in practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Heating effect of electricity: Many electrical appliances like electric stove, electric kettle, electric oven, various kinds of bulb and other gadjets have been made on this effect of current.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Chemical effect of current: Many chemical effects are caused by current.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Michael Farady made many such experiments.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Electric cell works on chemical effect of current.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Another example is electroplating.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Electrical coating of gold, silver, nickel on the elements like iron, copper, zinc etc. is called electroplatmg.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">In a glass pot copper sulphate solution is taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Few drops of sulphuric acid is added to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Two plates of copper is partially immersed in the solution and current is passed from a cell through a switch.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The plate to which -ve of the cell is connected is called cathode and the plate joined to +ve is called anode.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">On closing the switch for a few minutes a coating of copper is found deposited on the copper plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Dissolved copper from the solution is deposited on the cathode plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Instead of copper, if an iron rod is used as cathode then there will be copper coating on the iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Again, to coat iron with silver, anode plate will be of silver and some silver solution is taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">So, to coat a cathode with any material, anode be taken of that material and solution will also be of the same material.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The process of electrical analysis of a chemical compound is called electrolysis and the glass pot with the plates where such analysis is carried out is known as voltameter.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">By electroplating coating of valuable metal is given on metals of less value.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Coating increases their durability and looks attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">So their value increases also.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The large scale process of coating iron with tin or aluminum is called galvanizing.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Galvanizing protects iron from rusting and makes them durable.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Magnetic effect of current : Much work is done by converting electrical energy into magnetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Electric fan, door bell, generator, motor etc. are examples of such conversion.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Magnet created by electric current is called electromagnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">On an iron nail if insulated (rubber coated) copper wire is wound and current is passed, the nail becomes a magnet which then attracts other pins.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Stop flow of current, the pin falls indicating that magnetic power is no more there.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Here magnetic effect is temporary but strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">If a nail made of steel, in place of iron, is taken, the magnetic effect exists even after the current is stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Such permanent magnet is available in the market as bar magnet, horse-shoe magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Every magnet has two poles at the two ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">They are called poles of a magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Magnetic attraction is maximum at two poles.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The poles are named as north pole and south pole.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">To determine poles of a magnet suspend it by a thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">It directs toward north-south.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Take any pole of another magnet and bring it near of any end of the suspended magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">If there is the attraction, pole of the suspended magnet is opposite to the pole taken near it.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Because unlike pole attracts.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Repulsion would indicate same pole.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Using magnetic effect of current many machines have been devised such as telephone, telegraph, door bell, crane to lift load, dynamo, generator etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Dynamo or generators are machines by which mechanical energy is transformed into electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">It takes help of magnetic effect of current.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">On the other hand, reverse is done by electric motor.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Here electrical energy is converted into mechanical energy of motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">So, by connecting motor and passing current we can run pump for irrigation, can grind rice, wheat or spices and many other things.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The path through which current flows is called electric circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">In case of a cell the total path of flow of current in and outside the cell is the electric circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Current from one of the terminal of the cell goes through fuse, plug key and then comes back to the other terminal of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">If there is any discontinuity in the circuit, current does not flow.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The connecting wires used to connect cell with accessories of the circuit is coated with nonconducting material like rubber, plastic etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">This coating prevents body from shock if the current carrying wire touches our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Current carrying wire gives violent shock on touching.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Therefore it is called live wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Shock from high voltage current may cause death.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">So, people who work with high current use wooden platform to stand, rubber hand gloves to avoid accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">In order to start or stop flow of current in a circuit at will, switch or plug key is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">When switch or plug key is taken off, the continuity of the circuit is broken and the current goes off.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Plug the key, the flow of current starts again.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">When current flows through a conductor, current faces obstacle given by the material itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">This obstruction which a current encounters while flowing is called resistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">According to the name of German scientist Simon Ohm (1787-1854) the unit of measurement of resistance is called ohm.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He established an important law regarding the strength of current flow, pressure or potential difference between ends of a conductor and its resistance to flow of current.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The law is known as Ohm's law and is stated thus : At constant temperature the current, that flows through a conductor is directly proportional to the potential difference between its ends and inversely proportional to its resistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">From this law we see that flow of current strength depends upon potential difference at the two ends of the conductor and resistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">If potential difference between the ends increases, current strength increases too; but current strength decreases as resistance increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Current I is measured in ampere, potential difference V in volt and resistance in ohm.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">If we take a conductor of unit resistance, maintain unit potential difference between its end, then ohm's law says that current flow will also be of unit strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">We state below units of quantities related with flow of current along with ampere, volt and ohm.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Ampere: The unit of current flow was given the name ampere according to the name of French scientist Andre Ampere.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">When through a conductor of 1 ohm resistance whose ends are maintained at a potential difference of 1 volt, the current that flows through is called 1 ampere current.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Ampere can be defined in another way.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">We know that practical unit of charge is coulomb.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">As current is the rate of flow of charge through any plane in the conductor, then 1 ampere current is the flow of 1 coulomb charge per second through the plane.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The instrument which measures current directly in ampere is called ammeter.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Ohm : When the potential difference between the two ends of a conductor is one volt, and a current of 1 ampere flows through it, then the resistance of the conductor is 1 ohm.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Watt-hour : The rate of doing work of a man or a machine is called its power.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Watt is the unit of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">If an electrical machine performs 1 joule of work in a second the power of that machine is one watt.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">According to the name of'scientist James Watt this unit of power is called watt.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The energy expended by a machine of 1 watt power in 1 hour is called 1 watt-hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Killowatt- hour: Watt is a small unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">For big engine and machinery the unit of power used is killowatt.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">If a machine of 1 killowatt power works for one hour the energy spent will be 1 killowatt-hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">So the unit of expended electrical energy is killowatt- hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Electric bulb: It is used to give us light in our house.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">It is made of a glass bulb containing inert gas or it may be evacuated.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Two wires pass through its airtight mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">A coil of very fine tungsten wire joins two ends of the wire in the glass bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The tungsten coil is called filament.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Since the filament is very narrow and long it has a high resistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">So, current through it is obstructed very much and produce enough heat to give light.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Here electrical energy is converted into mechanical energy of rotation.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">It works on the principle of electric motor.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">To control its rotation a regulator is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The regulator is made of a few resistances that increases or decreases the motion of fan at will.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Electric heater: We know that current through a resistance is obstructed by it and gets itself heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">On the basis of this principle heater works.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">On a round plate, made of some nonconducting material like mica, fIre clay a coil of nichrome wire is fitted.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">There is groove on the round plate along which the coil sets.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Nichrome wire has 40 times more resistance than a copper wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">As heat production varies directly as resistance the nichrome wire becomes very much heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Cooking may be done easily by it.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Electric iron : Electric iron works on the same principle as an electric heater.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">In electric iron nichrome coil heats the smooth base plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">In electric iron heat produced depends upon the flow of current.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Electric bell: In there is a circuit of electric bell.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Carefully see the figure.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Push the button of the bell.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The electrical circuit is completed and current passes through electromagnet which then attracts a soft iron plate called armature.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">the bell and sound is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The hammer with spring goes away from the screw for magnetic attraction and the circuit is disconnected.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Current stops flowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">As a result electromagnet loses attractive power.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">A spring then pulls iron plate to the screw and again the electrical circuit is completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Again electromagnet attracts plate with hammer and sound is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Thus as long as button is pushed we hear bell ringing.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Refrigerator: One of the household appliances run by current is refrigerator which is used to keep things cool in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">In it a liquid called Freon is used which by controlling pressure easily can be converted into gas and from gas to liquid again.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Freon in liquid form is passed through the cooling chamber of the refrigerator.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">It takes heat from the articles there and under some special arrangement becomes gaseous.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Thus the things kept in cooling chamber becomes cold and remain fit for consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The Freon gas now is pressurized by a compressor and is converted back into liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The heat it took earlier from the things in the cooling chamber is taken outside the refrigerator and is again circulated through cooling chamber.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Most of our houses are now connected to electric supply.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">How this supply of electricity in our house is used to light house, rotate fans and do other service are discussed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Look at the figure of 14.Here two bulbs are connected in parallel with a battery.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">This type of connection ensures full voltage of cell to each of the bulbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The main thing in house wiring is to connect every thing in such a way so that they get the full supply voltage.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">This is done by connecting each light and fan with the two wires coming from electric supply in such a way so that they become parallel to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Figure of 14.14 shows two main wires coming from electric supply with fuse, meter, etc. and to them two bulbs, one fan and some plug are connected to be used when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">One of the main wire is called live wire, the other is neutral.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Electric pressure remains in the live wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">So if a person touches it keeping himself connected to ground current flows through the leg of his body and gives violent shock.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">This may cause death.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Neutral wire carries no pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">It is connected to the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The meter reads the quantity of electricity that is being used in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">From meter two wires go to the main switch.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">With this switch current to the house is supplied or it is stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">A safety fuse is there with the main switch.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">From main switch the wire goes to distribution box.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Where it is divided into two branch lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Each branch line has separate safety fuse.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">In the figure a light, a fan and a plug point has been shown in the lower line.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Light and fan has separate switches; they are connected to the live wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">In the upper line there is only one light and its switch.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Safety fuse: Electric current is as useful as it is dangerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Human body is a good conductor of electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">If for any reason our body touches live line, flow of current may cause death.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">If for any reason flow of current through our house, shop or factories increases fire may break out causing much damage.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">So, a safety measure is required in the supply line.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Safety fuse is such a devise.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">It consists of a metal wire of low melting point.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">In a china clay holder this safety fuse, usually made of tin and brass (25% tin, 75% brass) is placed and is connected with the main line.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">When flow of current passes a certain limit, the fuse wire melts and disconnects the circuit and so the current flow is stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Thus possibility of damage by fire is eliminated.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Now-a-days, circuit breaker is also used for this purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">But less costly fuse wire is still preferable.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">If a fuse in a circuit goes off again and again it can be assumed there is some fault there.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Fuse should not be replaced without correcting the fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Caution taken in using electricity: In house wiring a fuse must be connected in series with the main line.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The cable used must be insulated by wrapping it with PVC (polyvinyle chloride) or any other nonconducting material.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Rubber is also used for wrapping.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Sometimes wiring cable is kept hidden under plaster.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">In our house we use many valuable appliances for comfort.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Proper care must be taken to use these machines.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Otherwise irrepairable damage may cause to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Below we list some of the safety measures to be followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Do not touch switch with a wet hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">If fuse goes out, main switch must be shutdown.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">If fuse is to be repaired it must be done by proper material.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">If for any reason short circuit problem arises, shutdown the main switch and call electrician.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Ordinary screw driver should not be inserted in the socket.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">( An electric tester should be kept handy in all house.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">To connect a new machine it should be done according to the direction written in the literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Water must not be adhered to the body of any electrical machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">If it is not necessary then switch off the connection of radio, TV, iron, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">If fuse of a certain circuit goes off again and again it is to be understood that there is fault in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">The fault should be corrected first and then connection be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Use rubber shoe and gloves if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Besides, if a man or animal is electrified don't touch him with bare hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Using bamboo or wooden stick try to disconnect him from the circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">If any wire is found lying on a road, do not touch it.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Even when the wire of main line goes under water then the water should not be touched.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Electricity is a much valuable wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">For our development for running mills and factories its uses are increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">But its production is limited and costly too.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">So, to use it for personal or family reason or for large scale use in any sector we must be conscious and economical.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Following steps can be taken for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">When leaving a room, see if its lights, fans are switched off.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Heater or cooker must not be kept on unnecessarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">If there is any leakage of electricity it should be corrected.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Faulty machines consume much electricity than is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">So electrical machines must be repaired urgently and be maintained properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Illegal electric connection must not be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Cable of correct specification should be used for wiring.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Electromagnetic Induction : Space around a magnet where its magnetic influence exists is known as its magnetic field.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">In a closed coil if for some reason magnetic field changes through it then a current appears in the coil.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">This phenomenon of changing magnetic field producing current is known as electromagnetic induction.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">This was discovered by the famous scientist Michael Faraday (1831).</sent>
				<sent id ="314">His invention payed the way to large scale current production by electric dynamo, generator.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Also electric motor, transformer and other machinery have been produced due to the discovery of electromagnetic induction.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Electric generator : The machine by which mechanical energy is converted into electrical energy is called generator or dynamo.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">In dynamo a wire is wound rectangularly over a soft iron cylinder known as armature.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">There is a vertical rod along the axis of the cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">The rod is insulated from the cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The rectangular coil is placed between the pole pieces of a horse shoe magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">The lines of force of the magnet cut the coil.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Now if by a machine the rod is rotated then armature along with coil rotate.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">As a result, lines of force changes through coil and as such induce electromotive force appears at the end of the coil.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">If the magnet is strong, the number of turns of wire in the coil is large and the speed of rotation is high, as a result, a strong induced current flows through the external circuit connected to the ends of the coil.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Thus, here mechanical energy of rotation is converted into electrical energy by the generator or dynamo.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">They are of two kinds : A.C dynamo i D.C dynamo.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">In figure 14.16 construction of these dynamo are shown.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">This is a machine by which electric energy is converted into mechanical energy of motion, just the reverse of a dynamo.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">If a coil of wire whose ends are connected to an electric source, is placed in a magnetic field, the coil rotates freely.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">This is the principle of working of a motor.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">In a commercially produced motor there is a soft iron rod on which wire is wound as coil.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The poles of the magnet are near to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">So, the strength of the magnetic field at the space between poles increases which speeds up the rotation.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Thus the electric energy is transformed into mechanical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Electric motor is used widely.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">To rotate anything you need a motor.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">In fan, pump, caset player, rolling mill, tram etc. its use is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Transformer is a device by which electric energy is shifted from one circuit to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">All of the energies may be shifted or keeping the energy fixed, strength of the current may be altered.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">In the figure 14.17 a transformer is shown.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Here A is the primary circuit, B is the secondary circuit and C is a soft iron core.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">When current flows through primary circuit, an induced voltage appears at the ends of the secondary circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">The strength of this voltage depends on the number of turns of secondary circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Voltage will be high if the number of turns is more and it will be low when the number of turns is less.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">The first one is called Step up transformer and the second one is called Step down transformer.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">In the step down transformer less voltage is obtained in secondary than the primary circuit although current is greater in secondary circuit than that in the primary.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Exactly reverse is the case in step up transformer where greater voltage is obtained in secondary than that in the primary.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
