<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-19</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.256</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">277</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4216</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1197</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t66">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Living and nonliving things collectively form the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Every living thing derives necessary elements from the environment, which is again entirely returned to the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">So if there is any deficiency of living and nonliving elements in the environment, it becomes difficult for the plants and animals to survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Birds taking shelter in trees receive food and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In return, birds provide the plant with much needed carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Plants derive nutrients from fertile soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Animals again take the plants as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">This interdependence of living things is the simple uniqueness of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">It is through this type of inter-relationship that a balance is maintained in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">It is not only that in nature the living things depend on one another for survival, they also depend on the main elements of environment-soil, water, air-in addition to their equal dependence on other plants, animals and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">For this, the living things can never be considered separately from the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In any area, varieties of relationship develop among the nonliving environment and living species.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">This inter- relationship among the living species with nonliving environment is ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Ecology is again referred to ecosystem or nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Ecology is more often referred to as nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Though in the past, human beings considered themselves independent entity outside the environment, they do not think so now.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Because like other living things human beings also are inseparable component of the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Human beings and environment exert ample influence over each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Environment exerts influence on living things.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In the same way, living things can beautify environment at its desire, or can defile or damage environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">There are two basic components of any ecology, one of which is living thing, and the other is nonliving environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">All living things together form the living component of ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The nonliving environment preserves the living things.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Living things are the living component of ecology and all the rest are nonliving component.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Nonliving component: The nonliving component of ecology can be divided into three major components-organic, inorganic and physical.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">These factors exert influence on the living components in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Inorganic component: Soil, water, calcium, potassium and the likes are the inorganic factors of environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Gases like oxygen, carbon dioxide, nitrogen are also inorganic substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">All these are the primary nutrients for green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Organic component: The dead bodies of plants and animals decompose to form ammonia and humus.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">These then form the organic component of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The action of certain bacteria and fungus again convert part of this to inorganic mineral salts.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The green plants absorb these inorganic substances as nutrients.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Thus it is evident that the organic component is the connection between the living and nonliving things.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Physical component: The criteria on which the state or characteristics of nonliving things in the environment depend are climate, soil quality and geological factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Weather, climate, soil quality and geological factors determine the natural state of nonliving components of environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Solar energy is the source of all energy required for the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The green plants with the help of chloroplast and solar energy, convert the inorganic substances into organic ones and store it in the plant body.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">It is through the green plants that the solar energy flows through all living things.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">So, there is continuity of life on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Living component: All living things are the component of ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The living (biotic) and nonliving (abiotic) components of ecology are dependent on each other in such a way that the absence of one is the cause of disadvantage for the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Within ecology, the characteristics of plants exert influence on the features of animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">All animals take food for survival, body growth and reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">This food provides vitality in animal's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Sun is the source of all energy for all animal components in ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The living components of ecology are some independent animals, or animals of same species.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">For example, plant, animal and micro-organism.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">These living beings organize themselves in different ways in various environments and live collectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">So it is essential to know about species-aggregates (population), and biotic-communities before understanding biome.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">In a defined habitat, the animals of same species-aggregate are collectively called the population of that species.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Species-aggregates can never accomplish any task on their own.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">But plants and animals of different species living in a defined habitat maintain equality or balance because of persistence of regular interaction among the members of independent species.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">In the same way, species-aggregates of all the plants and animals living collectively in a defined habitat form the biotic-community.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Through exchange or interaction, the members of same biotic-community exert influence over each other in different ways to form ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Living things adapt itself with an independent part of ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">For the survival of living things in nonliving environment, living things have to struggle and thus they increase in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">In future, if there is any change in the nonliving environment, the biotic-community will fall back in its competition for survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Similar or near similar biotic-community live in some widespread areas of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">In these areas the similar biotic-community lives in well-organized ways to form the biome.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">In short, living beings with distinct and similar characteristics constitute biome.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">For example, with similar weather and land configuration the biome in the Sundarbans is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Likewise, several biomes are formed in different parts of the world with different climate and land influence.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">For example, grassland, desert, forest, polar region, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">All the biomes or the living things in the earth collectively form biosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">In other words, wherever life is present in water, soil and air, they collectively form biosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">In reality, biosphere is a huge ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Only the green plants are self- dependent.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">They can produce their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Animals are heterotrophic as they directly or indirectly depend on plants for their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Green plants are food producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">They store solar energy as potential energy in their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Some of the food produced by the plant is used to meet its own needs, the rest is stored in their body which is consumed by the herbivores.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Again, the carnivores consume the herbivores as their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">In this way, the food and consumer form a simple linear chain from food producer to the highest level of consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">This linear chain is called the food chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Sun is the main source of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">This solar energy is stored as potential energy in the four forms of life: producer, consumer, decomposer, and detritivore.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Producer: By the process of photosynthesis, in the presence of sunlight carbohydrate type of food is produced by the green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Through this process, water and carbon dioxide undergo chemical reaction to produce oxygen and carbohydrate type of food that are essential for living beings and environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">In this way the light energy is converted to chemical energy that gets trapped in carbohydrate type of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Plants that can carry out photosynthesis are called primary producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">As they can produce their own food, they are self-dependent.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">So they are called autotrophic.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Consumer or eater: The heterotrophic beings in the ecology are called consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Unlike the green plants, they cannot produce their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">They survive on the carbohydrate type of food produced by the green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">It is usually understood that the consumers are animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">As photosynthesis does not occur in animal body, directly or indirectly animals depend on plants for food.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">First level of consumer or primary consumer or herbivore: The animals that survive by eating plants are the first level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Many varieties of herbivore directly depend on plants for their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">For example, plankton that floats on water, insects, grasshopper, butterfly, pigeon, cow, goat, deer, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Second level of consumer or secondary consumer or carnivore: Animals that survive by feeding on the first level of consumers are called second level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Frog eat insect; lion, tiger, fox, and so on are the animals that eat the herbivores.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">So they are second level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In reality, for food these animals indirectly depend on the food producers (plants).</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Notable among the second level of consumers are fish, robin, crow, crane, snake, dog, wolf, spider and lizard.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Third level of consumer or highest level of consumer: Those who survive by eating the second level of consumers are called third level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Animals in third level of consumers include vulture, falcon, shark, crocodile, tiger, lion, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">However, some animals may be of more than one level of consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">They are called omnivores.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">When peacock eats food produced or derived from plants, it is the Producer 1st level consumer 2nd level consumer 3rd level consumer first level of consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Again, when it eats small snakes it is second level of consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">In the same way, human beings eat different levels of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">When human beings eat rice and pulse, they are first level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Again, when they take fish, beef and milk as food, they are second level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Decomposer or digester: In the ecology, there is another group of heterotrophic living beings that are collectively called decomposers.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">They derive their nutrition from the dead bodies of producers and consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Decomposers are living things, mainly bacteria and fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">They take their own food from the dead bodies of other living things.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">During this, a series of chemical reactions occur, resulting in gradual decomposition of dead bodies with the release of varieties of simple inorganic or organic compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">This is the digestion of living bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">As a result, the dead body is destroyed, and elements of food that can be absorbed by plants are released into the soil or air.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">So the presence of decomposers in the ecology is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The fungus and microbes in the soil while deriving their food from the dead bodies decompose the dead bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Some micro-organisms transform the simple organic compounds produced by the decomposers into inorganic compounds (salt) or convert into basic chemical elements, and release back into the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Producer plants later again absorb these substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Thus the decomposed materials transform again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The decomposers and detritivores play an important role in determining the change in nature of ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Scavenger: Some carnivores eat not only herbivores for survival, but also eat other carnivores.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">For example, a carcass in the forest is devoured by hyena, dog, vulture and crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">So they are called the scavengers or nature's cleaners.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">They are third level consumers too.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">All living things belonging to the groups of consumers, decomposers and detritivores are heterotrophic, as they all directly or indirectly depend on autotrophic beings for their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Through ages, the interdependence of producers and consumers has brought about cyclic changes in the basic chemical elements in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">1) Absorption of light energy through the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">2) Production of chemical substances like carbohydrate, protein and other essentials of cell by integrated reaction of water and inorganic salts absorbed from soil by producer.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">3) Intake as food the producers and consumers of lower levels by different levels of consumers, and the assimilation of food thus taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">4) Conversion of lower level of consumers into food for upper level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">5) After death of producers and consumers, the complex organic compounds from their body is lost and in the end is converted into substances acceptable to the producer plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The existence of different levels of consumers depends on the existence of food producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Some examples of terrestrial and aquatic food chain are given below: There are many such food chains in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">This gives an idea about how much each is dependent on the others.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Each food chain consists of one producer and usually 3-4 consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The highest level of consumers are not taken as food by other animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Disease, natural and unnatural causes bring about death to the highest level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">There are three types of food chain in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">For example- 1) Heterotrophic chain: The food chain that builds up beginning with plant source and gradually passing on to small and large animals is called the heterotrophic chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">This food chain is formed beginning with plant source and gradually leads up to big animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">2) Parasite chain: The food chain that starts with big living things and gradually passes on to smaller ones in a parasitic relationship is called parasitic chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Parasites derive their food from other living things.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">3) Decomposer chain: The food chain that develops between the dead bodies of plants and animals, and other microbes and animals is called the decomposer chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The decomposers derive their food from dead bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">In nature, the food chains are not isolated.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Starting from producers to consumers, the different interconnected food chains traverse a complicated pathway.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">One producer simultaneously may become food for more than one of the first level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Again, one of the first level of consumers simultaneously may become food for more than one of the second level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">As a result, the numerous food chains in a biotic-community form a food web.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">All living things in this world primarily derive their energy from sunrays.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Depending on the situation, green plants by the process of photosynthesis manufacture carbohydrate type of food using only 1-2 percent of the sunrays striking the surface of earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Photosynthesis is one of the processes, among the natural processes, that can convert solar energy into usable chemical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Through this process a connection is set up between nonliving and living worlds.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">This energy from the producer plant body flows through different food chains and food webs.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Starting from the producer, each food chain is arranged in several trophic levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">During respiration and other metabolic processes of the producers and consumers, the potential energy stored in the carbohydrate is converted into kinetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The amount of energy decreases as it is converted and passed on from the producer to the highest level of consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The energy stored in the producer is passed on to the herbivores.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">From there it passes on to the second level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Thus the energy flows.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Human beings are associated with different food cycles, and are always the last member in the cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">But, for human beings the food cycle may be short or long.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">For example, algae shrimp small fish boal fish human.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">This cycle is long and has five levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">But in most underdeveloped countries people are vegan.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">As a result this cycle is short.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">For example, rice (boiled rice) human.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">A lot of energy is lost during respiration and heat production as the energy flows from one food level to the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The shorter the cycle the less is the loss of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">In the first level, the amount of food or energy produced by plants with the help of sunlight is gradually lost in the subsequent levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">So the shorter the food chain the less is the loss of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">For example, grass can obtain a maximum of 2 percent of the sunrays for its body growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Similarly, a maximum of 4 percent of sunrays enters the cow's body, and is used for its body growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">From this rule it is understood that as the energy flows further upwards in trophic levels from the producer, the energy decreases proportionally.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Due to the gradual loss of energy, the number of consumer levels in a food chain is not much.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Unused food (energy) is excreted from the living body as excretory product (waste), or is lost as excretion related energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In the end, due to different causes, death comes to all living things, and there is misuse of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">This energy is called wasted energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Different detritivores or decomposers derive their energy from waste and dead bodies of animals from different trophic levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">In this way, the different organic geo-chemicals provide the necessary basic elements of substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">In any food chain, the energy transformation is especially effective.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">So, in every ecology, the overall utilization of oxygen and supply source of carbon dioxide is equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">According to the natural environment, there are mainly two types of Ecology: 1) Terrestrial ecology and Aquatic ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Besides these, people also create different types of artificial ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">This can again be of several types.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">For example, grassland ecology, forestland ecology, desert ecology, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Following is a brief description of the mangrove forest, that is, the ecology of the Sundarbans of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The natural environment of the Sundarbans is unique.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">It is situated on the southern part of the district of Khulna.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">It extends for 1.12 kilometre inland from the shores of the Bay of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Under the influence of high and low tides, the salt content of the forest soil is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The soil is sticky and muddy.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The commonly found trees in the Sundarbans are sundari, goran, gewaa, gol-pata, kewra, pasur, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The notable animals are deer, pig, monkey, tiger, turtle, crocodile, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Besides these, the birds found are hen, stork, crane, kingfisher, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">As the plants grow in saline environment, they have several characteristics that adapt them to the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Forest areas with such special types of plants are called goran bon or mangrove forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The mangrove plants have numerous prop roots arising from its trunk which helps the plant to anchor to the soil and not be dragged out during the high and low tides.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">As there is no air in the muddy soil, many of the roots do not go underground rather extend vertically upwards from the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Typically the mangrove plants produce tangled masses of arching roots that are exposed during low tides.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Some mangrove roots extend above the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">These roots have numerous pores on their tips called pneumatophores, which act as the aerating organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Pneumatophore and viviparous germination of different types of mangrove plants Because of high salinity of soil, the seeds that fall on the ground may rot, or else be washed away by the tides.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">For this reason, its seeds are unusual in that they germinate while still on the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Thus the saplings start growing as soon as they fall to the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">This type of germination is called viviparous germination.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The sundari, goran, gol-pata, and the various other plants are the producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Insects, hen, birds and deer are the primary level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Tiger and crocodile are the tertiary level of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Among this level of consumers, pig, monkey and crane are omnivorous.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">To get a comprehensive idea of the aquatic ecology, the study of a pond is appropriate.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">This is so because in pond ecology, the products of all actions and reactions in water remain in the water and pond bed, except for some gaseous materials that leave from the surface of the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Again, some gases and rainwater enter the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">This environment gives a clear understanding of the close relationship between the living and nonliving things within the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">So, if there is any change or an event occurs within this ecology, it can be closely observed, which is not possible in terrestrial ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Aquatic ecology is also called a closed ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Among the biotic-community in the pond the most important floating and fast moving minute ones are plankton.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The microscopic plankton in plant kingdom are called phytoplankton, and those plankton in animal kingdom are called zooplankton.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">In addition, there are green algae and small aquatic animals in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The nonliving components of the pond ecology are soil, water, solar energy, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The usual producers in pond ecology are varieties of plants-water lily, water hyacinth, hydrilla, phytoplankton, and so on-that float or live in shallow waters.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The first level of consumers in water are the varieties of floating small worms, mosquito larvae, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The second level of consumer include aquatic insect, frog, prawn and small fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The highest level of consumers include big fish, stork, sea gull, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">In the usual way, after death of these living things in the pond, the fungus that survive on dead bodies, microbes and even the small worms in the muddy pond bed act as decomposers.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Following the general rule, the decomposed inorganic salts again become food components of the producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Artificial ecology: Based on the knowledge of the natural and human environment, human beings create an artificial environment to rear certain selected plants and animals, this is called artificial ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The examples of artificial ecology are aquarium, lunar module, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Besides its use in education and research, small and big sized aquariums with special types of fish and aquatic plants are kept in homes and offices for decoration and entertainment of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Again, in other countries of the world huge aquariums have been built where arrangements have been made to preserve different varieties of small and big marine fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Every day hundreds of people visit such aquariums.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">These aquariums, made of glass, usually contain water, special types of some aquatic plants and insects, and inorganic substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">In addition, solar energy, air with oxygen, and food materials are regularly supplied to the water in the aquarium to facilitate fish rearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">So, unlike natural ecology, this does not have supply of all natural ingredients and processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Though it is possible to take short-term measures artificially, unlike natural ecology it lacks the mechanisms of purification, detoxification and re-decomposition of materials, and normal energy flow.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Such man- made ecology is called artificial ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Micro-ecology: Great advances in science and technology has helped to build several spacecrafts that are being used in space research, moon expedition, setting up of space station, and in other important programmes.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">These crafts are Salyut, Sputnik, lunar module, rockets, Discovery, Endeavour, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">These spacecrafts are successful examples of creating partially self-contained artificial ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">But these crafts are made to last for a short time-few days to few weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">These crafts are equipped with adequate food storage and mechanical mechanism for pollutant free waste disposal, which is suitable for short time and not for long time use.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Conduction of long term programmes of staying in the space, and moving from one planet to another will require space stations and vehicles that can maintain the necessary artificial ecology for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Such auto-regulated artificial environment made for the astronauts is called micro-ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">By this time, space researchers have given input to build such crafts and achieved success.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Sun is the source of energy in ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Energy from this source flows to the producers, that is the green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">From the producers, the energy gradually passes to the higher levels of consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Energy is released into the environment from the bodies of the consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Energy does not return to its primary source.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">In other words, the flow of energy in ecology is unidirectional.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Ecology is a self-sufficient unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Here the living beings are bound together in chains of food-consumer relationship.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">As a result a particular type of biotic form cannot increase in an unlimited way; again are not destroyed completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">The numbers of species in the different levels maintain a relatively proportionate equilibrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">In spite of various changes in nature, natural equilibrium is maintained in the long run.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">If for some reason, the number of a particular biotic species increases in the ecology, the subsequent changes in the other species will be such that, the number of species that increased will soon decrease relatively, and the equilibrium will be restored.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">For example, if for some reason, the tiger population increases in the Sundarbans, the deer population will decrease relative to the tigers.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">As a result the tigers (consumers) will not get sufficient food (deer), and some of the tigers will die.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Thus the number of tigers will decrease and previous state will be restored.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Again if the population of tigers decreases, the deer population will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">But the grazing land for deer in the forest is limited, so there will be scarcity of required extra food and some deer will die to bring back equilibrium in the ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Thus by nature's law the balance in the different levels of food and consumer is maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Using intelligence, human beings are able to derive peace and comfort from nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">On conquering disease, human beings are procreating rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">As a result, the continuously increasing population is frequently creating new problems everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">As an after effect of this, extensive unsolicited human intervention on nature is ongoing.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Plant resource is being destroyed; soil, water and air are being continuously polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">This is causing a negative effect on the climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Harnessing science and technology, human beings are using nature indiscriminately to meet their ever-increasing needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Cultivation on forest land, mountains slopes and deserts has not yet made possible to fulfil the food demand of the increasing population.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Using artificial fertilizer, crops are being grown on the same land three times each year.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The use of excessive chemical fertilizer and insecticide is destroying the equilibrium in agricultural ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Water is being polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">As a result harmful substances are entering the bodies of fresh-water fish, domestic fowl and cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">These harmful substances are then entering human body through the consumption of vegetables and flesh of contaminated animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">In this way the human food chain is also being defiled and poisoned.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Under all circumstances, through rational use of environment, we should try our best to ensure environmental equilibrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">For, we have to present our next generation with an ideal environment.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
