<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-geo-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.812</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">307</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5509</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1409</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t83">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Earth's crust and the interior of the earth : The earth is almost like a sphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Its radius is about 6,400 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">There is no scope to observe the interior of the earth by piercing the hard external covering.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The geologists by observing the characteristics of the seismic waves, gravitation and the characteristics of the magnetic field have developed some idea about the elements and structure of the earth's interior.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Depending on the worldwide collected information, the earth from the surface to the centre has been divided into three strata.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The earth's crust : The hard stratum of the rock covering the outer shell of the whole earth is known as the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The thickness of the earth's crust is the lowest in comparison to the other interior layers of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">On an average, it is about 20 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The thickness of the earth's crust on an average is about 35 kilometres beneath the continents and only 5 kilometres beneath the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Generally, the continental earth's crust is known as SIAL which is composed of Silicon (Si) and of Aluminium (Al).</sent>
				<sent id ="11">On the other hand, the earth's crust beneath the ocean is composed of basalt which is heavier than that of Sial layer and its major elements are Silicon (Si) and Magnesium (Mg) and is generally known as SIMA.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">It is inferred that probably this basalt stratum has been existing throughout the world as a coating beneath the Sial and in the bottom of the seas and oceans.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The temperature beneath the earth's crust increased by 30' Celsius for every kilometre of depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Barysphere : The stratum beneath the earth's crust is the barysphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">But, there is a thin layer between the earth's crust and the barysphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The Yogoslavian Seismographer Mohorovicic in 1909 first discovered this layer of seperation.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">So, the layer has been known as Mohorovicic Discontinuity.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The layer of barysphere is 2,885 kilometres thick which is extended from Mohorovicic upto the outskirts of the centrosphere (Fig. 18).</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The rocks of the upper part of the centrosphere are hard and brittle and this layer is about 100 kilometres deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The earth's crust and the upper part of the barysphere is 100 kilometres thick and this collectively known as rocksphere or lithosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The rocks beneath the hard layer of barysphere being close to the melting point are partially soft and this layer extends downwards for about 300 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">This layer is known as Asthenosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">This hard layer of rock can move slowly over the Asthenosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The upper part of the barysphere is made of silicate which is primarily composed of iron and magnesium.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">It is assumed that the lower part of the barysphere (700 to 2,885 kilometres) is constituted of the minerals composed of complete mixture of iron oxide (FeO), Magnesium Oxide (MgO) and the Silicon dioxide (SiO2).</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The temperature of the barysphere at 100 kilometres depth ranges from about 1,100 Celsius to 1,200 Celsius which increases to 1,900 Celsius at a depth of 700 kilometres and to 3,000 Celsius at the outskirts of the centrosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Centrosphere : The centrosphere is a layer which is extended from the lower part of the barysphere upto the centre of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The thickness of this layer is about 3,486 kilometres (Fig.17).</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The centrosphere occupies about 16 per cent of the total area of the earth and its weight is about one-third of the total weight of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The pressure of this layer is several lakh times more than the air pressure and the temperature ranges from 3,000 Celsius to 5,000 Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">It is learnt from the siesmic waves that the centrosphere has a liquid cover which is about 2,770 kilometres thick and has also a hard inner cover which is about 1,216 kilometres thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The major two elements of the centrosphere is Ferror (Fe) and Nickel (Ni) which is combinedly known as NiFe.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Earth's crust and the interior of the earth : The earth's crust and the interior of the earth can be divided into three divisions according to their mode of formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">These are Earth's crust on Lithosphere, Barysphere and Centrosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Earth's crust : The thickness of the earth's crust beneath the continent, on an average is 35 kilometres and beneath the ocean it is 5 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The upper layer of the earth's crust is S1AL.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The continents are primarily made of Sial rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Barysphere and Lithosphere : The bottom layer of the earth's crust is barysphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">This layer is about 2,885 kilometres thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The earth's crust and the upper part of the barysphere upto 100 kilometres is collectively known as rocksphere or lithosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Centrosphere : The layer extending from the lower part of the barysphere upto the centre of the earth is known as Centrosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">This layer is about 3,480 kilometres thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The outer cover of the earth's surface is known as the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The earth's crust is basically formed of the rocks composed of different minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">These earth forming minerals serve out different purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">As for example, mineral oil and coal are used as fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Moreover, the economic use of gold, copper, zinc, aluminium, nickel, iron etc. is also very much important.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Different land forming processes like volcanism, depositional and erosional activities are highly influenced by the structure of the rocks and minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">It is necessary to acquire some knowledge about minerals and rocks being the elements responsible for formimg the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">First let us see what is meant by minerals?</sent>
				<sent id ="51">What is the difference between rocks and minerals?</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Minerals are formed by the composition of two or more basic elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">However, some minerals may be formed of one basic element.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Diamond, gold, copper, silver, mercury and sulphur may be cited as examples.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Of all these, the hardness of diamond is highest and of talc is lowest.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">On the other hand, the rocks are formed by the mixture of one or more minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Here, we mention the term mixture because in nature the minerals are found in mixed condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Each of the rock forming minerals maintains its characteristic.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Though much of the rocks are formed of more than one mineral, but in such case, the minerals and rocks are the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">As for example, calcite is a mineral while it is known as limestone as a rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The characteristics of minerals are controlled by nature of the basic elements forming them.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">On the other hand, the property of rocks are regulated by the nature of the minerals constituting them.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The rock family : The rocks are of three types according to their mode of origin.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">These are igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Igneous and metamorphic rocks are formed by the processes accomplished in the interior of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">On the other hand, the sedimentary rocks are formed by the processes acting on the surface of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Though the mode of formation of these rocks are different, yet they are interrelated.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Igneous rocks : Igneous rocks can be formed under two environmental conditions viz., intrusive and extrusive.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">In the deep interior of the earth due to cooling, magma may be crystallized to form intrusive rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">If the magma finds its way to the surface of the earth through the vents, then it is termed as lava.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">This lava after cooling becomes extrusive rock (chart .</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In intrusive type of rock, the magma solidifies in the deep interior of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Granite, gabro, syenite, diorite etc. are the examples of intrusive rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">In hypabyssal type, the magma solidifies in the shallow interior as Porphyry.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Magma when thrown by violent explosions into the air after being solidified gives birth to the explosive Igneous rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Tuff and breccia may be cited as examples.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">In the quite type of igneous rock, the molten magma flows out quitely in all directions and solidifies.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Rhyolite, basalt, andesite etc. are best examples of this type of rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Fig. 19 : Landforms created by igneous rock Batholiths, Laccoliths, Dikes, and sills are the examples of the igneous rock formed into the interior of the earth (Fig. 19).</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Sedimentary rocks : The rocks which are formed by the deposition of sediments are known as sedimentary rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">In this type of rock, the sediments are deposited in layers or strata.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Sedimentary rocks cover an area of 5 per cent of the total area of the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">However, about 75 per cent of the total exposed part of the continental landmass is formed of sedimentary rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Sources of sediments and their characteristics : Different types of mechanical and chemical weathering processes are acting on the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Due to the effect of these processes, the outer crust of the earth gradually erodes out.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">These eroded materials are known as sediments.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The sediments which are formed by detrital created by the mechanical weathering is known as clastic sedimentary rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Clay, sandstone and pebbles are the examples of clastic sedimentary rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Sedimentary rocks which originate from the sediment accumulated by the chemical weathering is known as organic sedimentary rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In this process, the materials which remain in soluble condition in the water gradually settle down at the bottom by different inorganic processes and ultimately become consolidated.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">For example, if evaporation occurs in any confined sea water, then the salts remain as residue.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In this case, evaporation is an inorganic process and the salt that remains as residue is considered to be sediments.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">In some cases, the dead bodies of different acquatic animals are accumulated as organic sediments and ultimately these are consolidated and transformed into organic sedimentary rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Coal, limestone are the proper examples of such rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Besides, dolomite, chert and gypsum are the examples of chemical sedimentary rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Classification of sedimentary rock : Primarily, the sedimentary rock is of three types viz., mechanical, chemical and organic.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The names of sedimentary rocks with their elements is shown in Table 1.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Metamorphic rocks : The rocks which through temperature, compression and chemical actions have been changed either in form or in composition is known as metamorphic rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The agents of metamorphism : Heat, compression and chemically active fluids are the main agents who work singly or collectively to transform rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">These metamorphic media increase the internal density of the rocks and the dimension of the crystals and create clear foliation.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Due to the application of temperature and pressure, the minerals of the rock become compressed like the leaves of trees and are arranged in parallel layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">This characteristics of layered structure of rocks is called foliation.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Marble : It is a coarse grained crystalized rock which has been formed from limestone or dolomite.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Quartzite : It is a very hard metamorphic rock which is mainly created from sandstone.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The hot viscous type of matters in the interior of the earth is known as magma and if it finds its way to the surface of the earth, it is called lava.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Igneous rocks : Igneous rocks are formed by cooling of magma.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Landforms created by igneous rocks have diversified characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Dikes, sills, laccoliths and batholiths may be cited as examples.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Sedimentary rocks : Rocks which are formed by the accumulation of sediments is known as sedimentary rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">In this type of rock, the sediments are accumulated in layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Limestone, coral and gypsum are the examples of sedimentary rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Metamorphic rocks : Due to temperature, compression and chemical actions, the elements and structure of the minerals of a rock are changed and transformed to a new type of rock which is known as metamorphic rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Igneous and sedimentary through changes are transformed to metamorphic rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Slate : Slate is formed from shale.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">It is used to produce writing slates and blackboards.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Marble : It is a coarser grained crystalline rock which is created from limestone and dolomite.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Quartzite : It is a very hard metamorphic rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Primarily, it is formed of sandstone.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The earth's crust is ever changing.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Different landforming processes are responsible to bring changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Landforming processes are the activities by which the changes are accomplished naturally in the formation of the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">For example, a river is building a flood plain through deposition.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">So, the depositional activities of a river is a landforming process.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The landforming processes are accomplished with the help of different physical agencies or forces such as the gravitational forces, interior temperature and the solar energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The different landforming processes with the help of the aforesaid agents bring changes on the earth's crust either slowly or rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Generally, the landforming processes are associated with external forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The changes brought about on the earth's surface takes a longer period of time, so this type, of changes is known as slow changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The slow changes are accomplished in two processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Denudation : It means to make the things exposed.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The processes by which the rocks on the earth's surface are broken into pieces through the application of external physical forces and the debris are transported elsewhere is known as denudation.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">This denudation work is performed through three processes such as weathering, erosion and transportation.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Weathering : The weathering is a process by which the rocks on the surface of the earth is broken mechanically into pieces due to snow or frost, the variation of temperature and pressure or due to chemical (dissolution) action on the materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Even the rocks are dislodged by the animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">But the rocks weathered this way, are not transported elsewhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Erosion : Erosion and transportation are accomplished together.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The process by which the rocks of the earth's crust are eroded by the river, wind, glacier, ocean currents etc. and the eroded materials are transported elsewhere is known as erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">On the other hand, the rapid changes are brought about on the earth's surface by the landforming processes associated with the internal forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The changes brought about on the earth's crust by the landforming processes are shown in a figure below :</sent>
				<sent id ="139">According to this figure, the earthquake and the volcanism are mentionable of the rapid and sudden forces responsible for the changes on the earth's surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Earthquake : An earthquake is a vibration or oscillation of the surface of the earth caused by sudden release of enormous pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">If a stone is thrown in the quite water of a pond, it will create ripples in the water which will scatter all around the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Sudden release of enormous pressure from the interior of the earth, creates waves in the surrounding rock like the waves in water which also scatter all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The point where the energy is released is known as the centre.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The point just vertically above the point of origin is known as Epicentre (Fig.22).</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Seismography is used to measure the intensity of the earthquake waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Types of earthquakes : Normally, an earthquake originates between 5 to 1,126 kilometres deep into the interior of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The earthquake centre has been classified into three classes according to their depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">These are : Shallow : The earthquake originating at a depth of 60 kilometres is termed as shallow earthquake.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Intermediate : The earthquake originating at a depth of 60 to 300 kilometres is known as Intermediate.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Deep : The earthquake originating at a depth of 300 kilometres and above is known as deep earthquake.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">About 90 per cent of the earthquakes that occur throughout the year over the world originate within less than 100 kilometres of depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The terrible earthquakes which occured so far over the world are mostly of shallow type.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Causes of earthquake : The geologists opine that sudden tectonic actions in the faultline or along the cracks are responsible to create earthquake.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Besides, sudden ejection of lava with great force can also produce earthquakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Radiation of heat from the earth's surface causes shrinkage which in turn to maintain equilibrium, develops cracks along the faultline or folds and the earthquake is caused.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The rocks if dislodged due to earth movement or development of faults will also cause the earthquake.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Strength of earthquake : The energy of earthquake means the amount of strength which is scattered from the earthquake centre in all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Charles F. R. Richter, a seismologist first introduced an arithmetic scale to measure the intensity of seismic waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The scale is known as the Richter scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">From fig. 23, it can be realised that the severity of earthquake is not equal throughout the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Earthquakes mostly occur in the comparatively smaller areas which are long and narrow in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Among them, the most noteworthy areas are the circular islands (Philippines and Japan), young fold mountains and ocean ridges.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">According to fig. 23, the earthquake prone areas can be divided into three principal zones :</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The Pacific Zone : Maximum number of earthquakes occur along the outer border of the Pacific Ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Japan, the Philippines, Chile, Aleutian islands and Alaska have been identified as the most earthquake prone areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The Mediterranean and the Himalayan Zone : This region extends from the Alps to New Zealand covering Caucasus, Iran, the Himalaya, Indo-China and East Indies following the northern coast of the Mediterranean Sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Ridges of the Mid-Atlantic and the Indian Ocean : The north-south ridges of the Mid-Atlantic Ocean meeting with the ridges of the Indian Ocean extends upto the Mediterranean zone through the Red Sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Besides these three specified belts, there are some areas located seperately within the continents and in the deeps of the oceans where the occurrence of the earthquake is felt.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Effects of earthquakes : Earthquake is accepted as a natural calamity.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Most of the times, it causes great loss of lives and wealth in some parts of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Generally, it may be mentioned that the devastative nature of earthquakes brings the following damages and changes in the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Faults, cracks or landslides occur in the earth's crust due to the earthquake.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The course of the rivers is also changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">For example, the bed of the Brahmaputra river was raised and the river changed its original course and started flowing through the channel of the Jamuna due to the earthquake of Assam in 1787.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Earthquake, if it occurs in a thickly populated area, then causes great devastation to houses, roads and railways, water and gas supply line and other properties of the area.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Moreover, if the area is a hilly one, then the landslides and mud flow create devastation to the settlements located at the foot of the mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Earthquake that originates in the ocean floor create tremendous waves on the surface of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Waves thus created by earthquakes are known as Tsunamis.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Tsunamis bring sudden flood in towns and other localities in coastal areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Eruption : Eruption is one of the major forces or processes bringing changes on the surface of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Eruption of the volcanoes or the magma is the main sources of igneous rocks on the surface of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Volcanoes, by dint of their internal energy produce different landforms which are known as initial configuration of the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Different weathering agents start erosion on these initial landforms with various external forces and such areas are gradually transformed into plain lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Thus it can be noted that there are continuous attempts to maintain equilibrium between the internal and the external forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Extreme temperature released from the radioactive minerals in the interior of the earth cause the rocks of the lower part of lithosphere to melt.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">This melted rock finds its way to the earth's crust through the cracks or weak points.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">This erupted materials is known as Lava, gradually accumulated surrounding the vent and creates a high landform which is called Volcano.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">On the crest of the volcano, there is a forepart with vertical slopes which is known as crater.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">This crater through a tunnel is linked with the magma in the interior of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Sometimes the molten materials instead of ejecting out may be solidified inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">After ejection, the crater collapses creating a hole which is known as caldera.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Crater lake of Oregon State of the United States of America is a Caldera.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The volcanoes which eject lava from time to time are active volcanoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">At present, there are about 850 active volcanoes in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The volcanoes where volcanism remains suspended for a certain period of time are known as dormant and where the volcanic eruption has stopped permanently are known as extinct volcanoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Erupted materials : Large number of rock fragments, volcanic dust and fine volcanic ashes are ejected with the lava.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Besides, large amount of gaseous materials is also ejected.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">In the ejection process, firstly comes the basaltic lava followed by the andesite lava and lastly the rock fragments.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Types of volcanoes : Though the nature of each volcanic eruption is quiet different, but the specialists on the basis of shape, size and eruptive nature have divided the volcanoes in three different types as Shield Volcano, Cinder Cone and the Mixed Cone.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Shield volcanoes : This type of volcanoes is mainly constituted of basaltic lava.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Mauna Loa and Kilauea of the Hawaii Islands are the best examples of this type of volcano.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Mauna Loa is 5,000 metres wide beneath the ocean and it rises to 4,170 metres above the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Cinder Cone : This type of volcano is created by rock fragments and lava.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Parcutin and Mount Helena of Mexico are the proper examples of this type of Volcano.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Mixed Cone : This type of volcano is created mainly by andesite lava which is fluid type with more viscous components.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Hard rock fragments, volcanic dust, volcanic ashes and the heated gas are thrown with violent explosions and are accumulated near the crater and the viscous lava accumulates above them.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Mount Maon of the Philippines and the Fujiama of Japan are the examples of this type of volcanoes .</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Volcano Prone Areas : The location of the active volcanoes have been shown in fig.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Almost all the volcanoes are located along the border of the continents and the oceans.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The main belt stretches from New Zealand in the Pacific to the southern tip of South America covering the Philippines, Japan, Alaska and the western coast of North America and this belt is known as Fiery Ring.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Out of 850 active volcanoes of the world, this belt simply accounts for 75 per cent of the total.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Moreover, traces of volcanic activities are also manifested in the submarine ridges of the oceans.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">For example, the landforming activities in the submarine ridges of Mid-Atlantic are still active.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Effects of volcanism : Volcanic eruptions and heavy lava flow are a kind of natural calamity which causes heavy damages to the living creatures and different human activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">In the past, many towns and settlements were destroyed by lava flows and thousands of people died instantaneously due to the release of poisonous gas from the volcanoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Many of the volcanoes are situated in high mountainous regions and their crests always remain under heavy ice cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">But when eruption starts, the ice coverings melted and creates mud flow and creates heavy damages to the localities situated at the foot of the mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Moreover, occasionally the rock fragments and ashes ejected with explosive forces are being thrown into the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The landforms that are created from the volcanic eruptions and lava remain unutilised for a longer period and brings noteworthy changes in the landscape.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">However, the landforms thus formed by volcanoes are very fertile and are also very rich in mineral resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Moreover, the volcanic landforms are very important for tourists.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Earthquake : An earthquake is a vibration of the surface of the earth caused by sudden release of enormous pressure from the interior of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Folds, cracks and landslides may occur and even the courses of the rivers is may be changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Earthquake, if it occurs in any densely populated areas, will cause enormous damage to houses, roads and streets, water and gas supply system and other resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Earthquake, if occurs beneath the sea creates tremendous waves on the surface of the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Volcanoes : The molten rocks of the interior of the earth finds its way to the surface through the cracks or weak points of the lithosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">These ejected materials are known as lava which gradually accumulates in the surroundings areas of the cracks or openings and forms a high landform which is known as volcano.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The volcanoes may be classified into three types viz, Shield volcano, Cinder cone and Mixed cone.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The earth is formed of diversified physical structures which is known as landform.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">These physical structures include the high mountains, vast traces of plain lands and also features of intermediate heights.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The mountainous regions cover about 18 per cent, plateaus and hills about 24 per cent and the plain lands about 58 per cent of the total area of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">A mass of rock considerably very high occupying a vast area is known as a mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Higher altitude and steep slopes are its main characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">This altitude may reach to several thousand metres from the sea level.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Some of the mountains may be located in isolation viz, the Kilimanjaro of East Africa.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Again some mountains with several peaks may cover a large area (several thousand kilometres).</sent>
				<sent id ="237">This type of mountains are folded like the waves (Fig. 28) viz., the Himalayan Mountain which extends from Pamir Knot in the east.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The Rocky and the Appalachian Mountains of North America, the Andes of South America, the Alps, the Ural, the Caucasus of Europe and the Fujiyama of Asia are noteworthy among other mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Several mountain building processes known as Orogenesis work together in the formation of the mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Greek word Oros means mountain and Genesis means formation or creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Tremendous weathering particularly the wind, water and glacier bring substantial changes in the landforms.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Fold Mountain : This type of mountains are generally constituted with the union of several vast and high mountain ranges.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">It can be said easily that when a tectonic plate enters into another adjacent plate then huge quantity of sediments are accumulated along the joint line of the two plates and due to lateral pressure, these sediments are folded giving rise to anticlines and synclines.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The fold mountains are formed consisting of the synclines and anticlines covering a vast area.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The Himalayan Mountains, the Alps, the Ural and the Rocky Mountains are the appropriate examples of the fold mountains .</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Volcanic Mountain : Generally, the volcanic mountains are formed by the accumulation and solidification of the molten materials ejected through the volcanoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">This type of mountains are generally conical is shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Depending on the nature of lava flow ejected through volcanoes, this type of mountain in some cases, may cover small area with steep slope (Fig. 30) as Mount St. Helena of the United States of America, and in other cases, may cover a large area with gentle slope like the Fujiyama (Japan) and the Mouna Loa (Hawaii island).</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Block Mountain : The block mountain has got at least one side to be very steep with natural fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Movement of the earth creates fractures in the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">So, the rock strata on both the sides cannot match together and displacement starts among the strata.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">So, the earth's crust is displaced along the crack which is known as fauly.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">So in some part, this displacement may be upward and in another part it may be downward.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The uplifted part along the fault is known as Block Mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The Black Forest of Germany and the Salt Mountain of Pakistan may be cited as examples.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The valley which is formed due to the downward movement of the land between two faults is known as the Rift Valley.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Laccolith Mountain : The molten magma tries to come out of the interior of the earth being dispalced by the pressure of the gas, but these molten materials, instead of coming out to the surface of the earth solidifies beneath the surface of the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Due to upward thrust, the rock layer takes the shape of a tomb.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The mountain thus formed is known as Laccolith or relict mountain (Fig. 32).</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The Henry Mountain of the United States of America is an example of this type of mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Plateau : The vast plain area lower than the mountain but higher in elevation than the plain land is known as Plateau.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The formation of plateau is mainly linked with the mountain building processes (Fig. 33).</sent>
				<sent id ="263">The volcanic lava, in some cases, has formed a vast plain land as in the case of the Deccan Plateau of South India.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Besides, the old mountainous regions, by the process of weathering and denudation has been converted into a plateau.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The elevation of the Intermontane Plateaus range from 3000 to 5000 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">These plateaus are generally remain enclosed by mountains and are formed by the different mountain building processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">The Tibetan Plateau is of this type.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">This plateau is surrounded on the north by Kunlun, on the south by Himalaya and on the east and west by other mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The average elevation of this plateau is more than 4000 metres and the area is also more than 52 lakh square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Besides, the Bolivian Plateau of South America, the Mexican Plateau of Central America, the Mongolian and the Tarim Plateau of Asia are examples of this type of plateau (Fig. 34).</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The Piedmont Plateau : This type of plateau is formed at the piedmont of high mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Due to extensive weathering in the mountainous slope, the eroded materials are deposited in the lower slopes of the mountains creating an extensive plain land which is known as Piedmont Plateau.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">However, the lower part of this type of plateau joins with the adjacent plain lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Colorado located in the south western tip of the Rocky Mountain of the United States of America and Patagonia of South America are the Piedmont plateaus.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The Continental Plateau : The vast high plain land enclosed by seas or lowlands are known as Continental Plateau.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">This kind of plateaus do not have any relation with the mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Arabian Peninsula, Spain, Australia, Greenland are the best examples of this type of plateau.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The population is very thin due to rugged relief and dry clilnate.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">However, these plateaus are rich in different minerals like tin, copper etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Moreover, hydroelectric plants have also been established in the rapid flowing rivers of the plateaus.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Plains An extensive high land above the sea level with gentle slope is known as Plains.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Here, the plain means the land which is less rugged.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">This type of plains have been formed by the erosional and depositional work of different landforming activities like river, glacier, and wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Gently undulating land with less rugged relief is most suitable for agriculture, settlement and road construction.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">So, dense settlements have been developed on the plain lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">On the basis of the origin of the plain land, the plains have been classified into two as erosional and depositional.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Plains formed by erosion : This type of plains are formed due to continuous erosion accomplished by river, wind and glacier.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The upper rocks are eroded gradually and the lands with steep slope are transformed to plains (Fig. 35).</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The plains at the foot of the Appalachian and the Siberian plains are the glaring examples of this type of plains.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Madhupur and Barind region are the two examples of such plains formed by erosion in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">During the Pleistocene era that means about 8 to 10 lakh years ago, these areas were uplifted from the ocean by diastrophic action.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">In the later eras, these uplifted areas had been transformed to plains due to erosional activities by river.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Plains formed by deposition : The plains are also formed by deposition.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Formation of this kind of plains can be found anywhere starting from the mountainous regions to the sea coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Rivers during their course can form valley such as the valley of Nepal.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Alluvial fan can be formed at foot of the mountain or hill by deposition.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">In the lower course of a river, when its transportation power becomes sluggish, it overflows the banks creating flood and the sediments are deposited gradually on both sides of the river forming a plain land which is known as Flood Plain (Fig. 36).</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Flood plains of the Dhaleswari and the Jamuna can be mentioned as examples.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">A type of plain land is formed at the mouth of the river through deposition which is known as Delta (Fig. 36).</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The south western part of Bangladesh includes such a delta which is known as the Ganges Delta.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Besides, the plains are also formed in the coastal areas due to the influence of ebb and tide are known as coastal plain (Fig. 36).</sent>
				<sent id ="302">The coastal plains of Chittagong stretching from the mouth of the Feni river upto Teknaf is an example of this type of plains.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">The plains are also formed by the deposition of glacial moraines in the cold areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">The Prairie of Canada is an example of such plains.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Sometimes, the plains can also be formed by the depositional work of the wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">The Loess soil of North China and the Pampa of Argentina are the examples of such plains.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The Loess soil is very fertile but very much erosion prone.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
