<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.456</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">226</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3152</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1167</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t74">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Plants are invaluable resource of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">A wide varieties of plants grow all around , starting from highest peak of mountains to the bottom of the sea in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Even plants grow in the body of living organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">They also widely vary in shape and size as well as in types and nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Some of them are about 100 metres tall.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Whereas some are so small that they cannot be seen with eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">All these plants together constitute the plant kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Plants play an important role in maintaining the balance of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Human life is thoroughly mixed up with these diverse plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They are both beneficial as well as harmful, but the extent of benefit is much greater than that of harm.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">But our knowledge about this vast plant kingdom is very limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Whereas, for achieving success in agriculture, industry, forestation, conservation of environment programme etc. utilization of plant resources is indispensable.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">But for this we need to have appropriate and technological knowledge about the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It is humanly impossible for one to know or to identify each plant separately because of their wide diversities in characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">But for the sake of our own interest it is essential to know about all the plants of the plant kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">This is why, plant kingdom is classified into various groups in order to know easily about the innumerable plants of the plant world.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">As a result of classification, it is possible to know easily about all the plants in a group by knowing only a particular plant belonging to that group.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Dividing plants scientifically based on special characteristics into different groups is known as plant classification.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">External and internal structure, life cycle, evolution, habitat, distribution etc. are important characteristics of each plant species.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In view of these, even though there are differences from one species to another, there are also similarities in some of the aspects .</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Thus based on the presence or absence of root, stem or flower, the plant kingdom is divided into algae, fungi, moss, ferns etc.; based on the characteristics of stems into herbs, shrubs and trees, based on habitat into xerophytes, mesophytes, halophytes, hydrophytes etc. and based on life cycle into annual, biennial and perennial.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">We have already learnt about these.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">On the basis of these in order to know different plants and to apply the acquired knowledge into practice, the plant kingdom has been divided into the following groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The characteristics of each of the group is also described here with examples.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Primitive Plants or Protophyta Plants belonging to the group of Protophyta are acellular or cellular and microscopic.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">They are devoid of any organized nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">They are generally of two types, namely virus and bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Virus is the simplest and smallest form of life on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">They are so small that they cannot be seen without the help of electron microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Viruses are of different types .</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Among them tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) and T2virus or phage virus are well known.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The body of virus is not composed of cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">They have no system for taking food, excretion, respiration, nutrition etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Their bodies do not grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">They are dependent on other substances or organisms for transmission.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Most of the characteristics of organisms are absent in virus.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">But virus is composed of biochemical substances and are capable of multiplication inside the suitable host-body utilizing biochemical substances of the host.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">All viruses possess these two significant characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Hence, virus is considered as a form of living entity.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Virus is considered as a connecting link between non living and living things.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Shape and structural features: Virus may be spherical, needle-shaped, tadpole-shaped or loaf-shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) is contained within their outer coat made up of protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">T2-phage is a tadpole-shaped virus, It has a head and a tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The outer covering is composed of protein and inside the head there is deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).</sent>
				<sent id ="45">A collar like part is present at the junction of the head and tail, there is a base plate at the end of the tail and a few long threadlike attachment fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">T2 phage sticks to the body of the host bacteria with the help of attachment fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Then it pushes its nucleic acid from the head through the hollow tail into the body of the bacterium.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The nucleic acid utilizing bacterial cell constituents produces innumerable new viruses within a very short time (about 30 minutes).</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Finally, the new viruses come out by dissolving the cell wall of the bacterium.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">These new viruses on getting suitable host bacteria around them, they can also multiply in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Virus is mostly known as a disease producing organism.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The following is a list of diseases caused by virus and their hosts, that is, the names of the organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">As a result of these diseases, plants and animals become sick and may become disabled or may die ultimately.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Vaccination for prevention of these diseases is more effective than their treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The disease causing virus is weakened or killed by special methods and is used in the preparation of vaccines of measles and polio.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">These vaccines help in the development of immunity in the body against the diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Viruses are also directly beneficial to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Some times the numbers of unwanted animals can be controlled by using virus.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">One of such glaring example is the use of Myxometosis virus for controlling the number of rabbits in Australia.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Virus causes death and decay of innumerable bacteria, protozoa etc. and convert their dead remains into fertilizers in the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Though bacteria are larger than viruses, they are much smaller compared to other organisms and are composed of cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">But they cannot be seen with bare eyes, but can be seen only with the help of compound microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The external morphology of different type of bacteria are shown is the diagram.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Experiment: Put a drop of curd in the middle of a glass slide and spread it using the edge of another slide.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Dry the curd by heating the slide over spirit lamp .</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Then stain the slide using crystal violet solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">After drying, wash the stain on the slide under drops of water and then examine the slide under a compound microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Now try to identify Lactobacillus bacteria comparing with the diagram in the book.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">In 1665 Leeuwen Hook first discovered different forms of bacteria using lens which was discovered by himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">He named them tiny organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">More than 10-12 crores of bacteria live in one tea-spoonful of fertile soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Besides, bacteria can live in water, compost, body of other organism and numerous bacteria are temporarily present in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Structure of Bacteria: Bacteria are basically unicellular organism with primitive nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">They are mostly spherical, rod-shaped or spiral in shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But in some cases 2, 4, 8, 16 or more cells are arranged in a definite pattern in their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Even though bacteria are unicellular, their body structure is unique and different from common plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">It is covered with a complex cell wall composed of three layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Outer most mucilaginous layer is called the slime layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Under special circumstances when this layer becomes very thick , then it is called a capsule.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Middle layer is the common cell wall and the innermost layer is the cell-membrane or protoplasmic membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Some bacteria develop flagella (singular-flagellum), thread-like outgrowths.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">These flagella originating in the cell and projecting from them through the cell wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">By their movement in different directions bacteria are capable of moving.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Inside the cell is the protoplast.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Their nucleus is not well-organized.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Other organelles, such as chromosome vacuole, plastid etc. and fatty substances are dispersed in the protoplast.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Bacteria generally reproduce by binary fission.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">In this method the nucleus divides first.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Almost simultaneously the cell wall from two sides in the middle, starts growing inwardly.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">This newly formed cell wall divides the cell into two parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The two daughter cells thus formed soon attain full size of bacteria and start dividing again.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In some bacteria, binary fission is completed every 20 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">In this way, in a very short time a large number of bacteria can be produced from a single bacterium.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Even though bacteria are commonly known as harmful organism, they are infact beneficial to human being and environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Some beneficial and harmful bacteria are briefly described here.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Beneficial roles among others include soil quality, that is increase of soil fertility, waste disposal through their decomposition, industrial production such as removing fur from the skin, production of alcohol, vaccines etc. are specially mentionable.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Besides, bacteria play an important role in separating fibres from jute plant, a major economic crop of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The bacteria which live in water, enter the jute plant and dissolve the chemical substances which bind the fibres in the bark and use these as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">As a result, the fibres are separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Bacteria also play some harmful roles.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">These include, causing diseases like cholera, typhoid, tuberculosis, diphtheria, pneumonia etc. in human; cholera and other diseases in domestic animals, rotting of fruits, vegetables, fish, meat etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">and decreasing soil fertility by releasing nitrogen fixed in the soil as nitrogen gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Plants belonging to the thallophyta group are unicellular or multi cellular Chlorophyllous or non chlorophyllous, plants with branches or without branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Thalloid body is the main characteristic of these plants, that is, body is not differentiated into roots, stems and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">They are mainly of two types such as fungi and algae.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">But a kind of symbiotic thallophyta is formed by the association of algae and fungi which is known as lichen.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Fungi are thallophytes, their body is devoid of chlorophyll, so they cannot manufacture food through the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Hence they depend for food on decaying organic substances or on food produced by other organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">For example Mucor (bread mould), Agaricus (mushroom), Puccinia (wheat desease) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Fungi grow in food substances, wooden furniture, leather goods, crowdung, soil and bodies of other organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Fungi which grow in decaying organic substances and food materials are saprophytic fungi such as Mucor and Agaricus.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">And the fungi which grow in the body of organisms and derive their food directly from them are parasitic fungi such as Phytophthora.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Agaricus: Agaricus is a saprophytic fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">They generally grow during the rainy season in meadows, home yard, and decaying damp soil of forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The fine thread- like network of their main body spread far away in all directions under the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">This part is the mycelium.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Under favourable conditions first small ball like structures grow from the mycelium.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Then these structures grow above the soil surface into an umbrella like structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">This umbrella like structure is the fruit body.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Innumerable minute spores are produced in this part for propagation of the fungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Fruit body is used as delicious food in many countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">This kind of fungus is also now cultivated in Bangladesh for use as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Experiment : Collect Agaricus from the school or home compound and observe under lens.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Try to identify Agaricus by comparing with the diagram of book.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Economic importance: Fungi cause much beneficial and harmful effect to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Fungi are used in industries like bread-making, cheese ctc.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Valuable antibiotics are produced from fungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The most notable of these is the penicillin.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Fungi spoil many substances of use including food stuffs.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">They cause different diseases of man and plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Late blight of potato and brown spot of rice are caused by fungal infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The fungi are responsible for causing much losses of economic crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Besides, fungi are responsible for causing different kinds of diseases in various organs like skin, liver, lungs, nose, ear, throat etc. of different animals including man.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Algae: Algae are thallophyte plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">They have chlorophyll in their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">They can produce food with the help of chlorophyll through the process of photosynthesis, such as Spirogyra, Chlorella etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Algae grow in water, soil and stems and leaves of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Spirogyra: They are green thread - like multicellular and unbranched algae.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Their body is made of many narrow cells joined end to end.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Each cell contains a spiral chloroplast with chlorophyll and pyrenoids.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Starch is stored in the pyrenoids .</sent>
				<sent id ="142">In each cell the nucleus is suspended with the cytoplasmic strands.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Spirogyra grow in the water of ponds, ditches, cannals marshy lands, rivers, streams etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Experiment: Collect some floating green algae in a beaker containing water from a stagnant water source.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Then take threads of algae on a glass slide and examine under a compound microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Try to identify the spirogyra matching with the diagram in the book.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Economic importance: Algae are both useful and harmful to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Many algae are used as food for fishes, cattle and human.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Iodine, food stuffs, agar and many other valuable products are made of algae.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Blue green algae increase the fertility of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Lichen is a special kind of symbiotic plant made up of algae and fungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The algae help the fungi in their nutrition through the production of food materials in photosynthesis, while the fungi help the algae by supplying water and mineral salts collected from the host body.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The process is called symbiosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">This kind of plants generally grow on the bark of large trees and rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Economic Importance : Lichens help in soil formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Besides; lichens are used in the industries of aromatic products, pharmaceuticals, dye products etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Embryo is the principal characteristic of these plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">They produce new plants through embryo.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Fertilization of male and female gametes leads to the production of the zygote.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">This zygote later on is converted into the embryo.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">All the plants belonging to this group are advance to those in the thallophyta group.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">All plants other than those described earlier are embryophyta.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Plants of this group are comparatively advanced than those of the thallophyta.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Their body may or may not be made up of stem and leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">But they never produce root.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Instead of roots, they produce hair like fine rhizoids.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">They grow in shaded damp soil, old walls, and roofs, bricks, dead stems of trees etc, Example-Moss.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The body of Moss plant is divided into rhizoids, stem and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Leaves grow spirally on the short slender stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The entire body including the rhizoids is called the gametophyte.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Sporophyte is produced at the apex top of the matured gametophyte.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The capsule of the sporophyte contains spores from which new moss plants grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">In favouarable condition moss plants grow like a green carpet covering soil, on the mountain slope.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Experiment: Collect a few moss, examine or observe one of these under a magnifying glass, or simple microscope and compare the structure with the diagram in the text book.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Economic Importance : Economically Bryophyta are not of much significance.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">These plants by growing on the hard substratum under wet environment facilitate the formation of a soil layer which in turn becomes suitable for the growth of other plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">That means, they play an important role in the succession of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">But these plants by growing on the walls and roofs of buildings cause damage to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Plants belonging to the pteridophyta group are advanced than those of the bryophyta.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">These plants bear roots, stem and leaves but never produce flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">They grow in the shaded places on damp soil, old walls and the stems of large trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Example-Fern or Dhekishak.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Fern : Fern body is divided into roots, stem and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">But the stem is modified into rhizome which lies horizontally under the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Their leaf is compound which at early stage is coiled like of the dog's tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Leaves come out from the stem on the soil in the form of bundles.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Leaves are divided into small parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Each of these small part is called pinnule.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Leaf surface is covered with brown scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">During summer, kidney shaped sori grow on the undersurface of leaves, The spores are produced in the sorus, from which new fern plants grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Ferns grow in the damp soil under bushes and on the old walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Economic Importance: Pteridophyta are economically important.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Many good- looking fern plants are grown for the decoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Some of these plants are taken as vegetables by us.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Mineral coals are considered to be the fossilised body of ancient fern plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">But some of these cause great damage by growing on old building and on trunk of trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Production of flower is the principal characteristics of flowering plants that is, spermatophytes.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Plant body is divided into root, stem and leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">They can be divided into two major divisions, such as the gymnosperms (naked seeded plants) and angiospermes (closed seeded plants).</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Gymnosperm: Since there is no ovary in the flowers, the ovules remain uncovered and on fertilization produce seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">They do not produce any fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">So seeds are not covered by the fruit wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Examples-Cycas, Pinus, Thuja etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Economic Importance: Some of these plants are grown in pots, garden, park or by the road side as decorative plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Angiosperm: The flowers of the plants bear ovary and ovules.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">On fertilization the ovules are converted into seeds and the ovary into fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The seeds remain covered in the fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The angiosperms are of two types, such as Monocotyledons and 2) Dicotyledons.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Monocotyledons: There is only one colyledon in the seeds of monocotyledonous plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Generally the monocotyledonous p1ants produce adventitious roots and their leaves have parallel venation.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Examples-paddy, sugarcane, coconut etc. Dicotyledons: In the dicotyledonous plants, there are two cotyledons in the seed.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">They produce tap roots system and the leaves have reticulate venation.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Examples Mango, black berry, jackfruit etc. Economic</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Importance: Flowering plants are most important to mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Because we obtain most of the daily necessary things from these plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Our staple food like rice, bread, biscuit, loaf etc. are obtained from the plants like paddy, wheat etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">We take fruits like mango, blackberry, jackfruit, guava, plum etc. Brinjal, jinga, patal, potato etc. are used as vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Cloth is made from cotton and jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Furniture and house budding materials are made of the trees like shal, gorjon karoi, teak etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Medicine is obtained from the plants like neem, bashak, amloki, haritoki, baihera etc. Plants like china-rose, rose, gardenia, marigold, dahlia, etc. are planted for flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Paper is manufactured from the wood of Geoa, bamboo, green jute etc. Food, clothing, shelter, medical treatment that means,the development of human civilization, have been based basically on the flowering plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The different groups, under the plant kingdom described above can be represented by the following tabular diagram:</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Through above description and experimentations, we have been able to acquaint ourselves with some plants of different groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">We can identify plants as per the tabular diagram after collecting plants specimens from the surrounding environment and arranging them in groups on the basis of their characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">At the same time, we can understand the various roles of plants in socio-economic activities, such as agriculture, industries, trade and commerce, forestation and maintaining the balance of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">We can also understand other potentialities of plants and apply further for our benefit.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
