<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-geo-11</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.619</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">235</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3497</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1179</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t78">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Introduction : Afghanistan, Iran, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Syria, Palestine, Israel, Lebanon, Turkey, Cyprus and Egypt are combinedly known as the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Location : The Caspian Sea and the Black Sea are situated on the north of the Middle East, Aegean Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, Libya, and the Red Sea on the west, Sudan, Arab Sea, and the Gulf of Persia on the south, and Pakistan on the east.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The whole of the Middle East is located between 13 North latitude to 42 North latitude and 25 East longitude to 74 East longitude and 50 East longitude has crossed through the middle of the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Area and Population : Total area of the Middle East is 78,42,364 square kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The region is 4,505 kilometres long from east to west while from north to south it is 3,379 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">There are 18 states of which all except Israel are Muslim states.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Israel is Jewish state.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">In respect of area, Saudi Arabia ranks first, Iran second, Egypt third, Turkey fourth and Afghanistan fifth.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">At resent, the total population of this region is 40.31 crore and the density of population is 51 persons per square kilometres, but the density of population is much higher in the Nile, Euphrates and Tigris.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">In respect of population, Egypt ranks first, Iran second, Turkey third, Iraq fourth, and Saudi Arabia fifth.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Again in respect of density of population Bahrain is placed first, Palestine second, Lebanon third, Israel fourth and Kuwait fifth.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Area, population, density of population of the different countries with their capitals have been presented in Table 5. People, Religion and Language : Majority of the people are Caucasian, people of diverse faith that includes Islam, Christianity, Judaism and Druz live here, but 96 per cent of them are Muslims having two sects namely Sunni and Shia.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The people speak Persian and Postu according to their places of origin.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">However English speaking people are few in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Physiography : The Middle East is divided into three divisions according to its physical features.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Mountainous region, Plateau and highlands, and Plains.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Mountainous Region : The Hindu Kush mountain extending to the west from the Pamir Plateau is located in the north of Afghanistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The mountains Elburz and Zagros proceeding towards west have met the Armenian Knot.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The two mountains Pontic and Taurus coming out from the Armenian Knot to the west, are situated in the north and south of Turkey respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Plateau and Highlands : The Iran Plateau located between Hindu Kush and Elburz in the north and Zagros in the south have actually occupied most of the areas of Baluchistan, Afghanistan and Iran.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The height of the plateau ranges from 902 metres to 1,504 metres with average height of 1,200 metres and its central part is relatively low.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The Anatolian plateau stands between Pontic and Taurus mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Its average height is 750 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The plateau slopes down to the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Arabian plateau is formed nearly of the entire Arab and Senai Peninsula.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The western part is quite high and slopes gradually to the direction of the Persian Gulf in the east to meet the plain.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">In the east there are some highlands to the east of the river Nile of Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Plains : The river basin of the Nile of Egypt and Mesopotamia between the river Euphrates and the Tigris is the principal plain region of the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">These two plains washed by rivers are very fertile because of alluvial soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">There are plains of North Iran near the Caspian Sea, plains of South Iran in the east of Persian Gulf, and the Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait plains in the west of Persian Gulf, the narrow plains of the Arabian Peninsula by the Red Sea and the small plains in the north of Afghanistan by the south of Amudariya.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The Nile basin is the principal plain of Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Climate : It rains in winter in the narrow west coast of the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">In other places, the rainfall is very little.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The wide difference between the winter and summer temperature and extreme weather is the main characteristic of this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The small amount of rain mostly fall as frost in Afghanistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The cold is extreme in the plateau of Iran and there is frost at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">In summer, the sky-remains cloudless and the wind is dry and as such extreme heat is felt.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The cyclonic wind from the Mediterranean Sea causes rainfall in winter in Iraq but scorching heat is the general characteristic of summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The Mediterranean coast of Turkey is the warmest.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The valleys in the coast of the Aegean Sea has cool summer and cooler winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">In the Syrian coast it rains in winter but the interior is without rain and remains dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Southern part of Syria is becoming desert.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Jordan experiences no rain in summer and gets rain in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The Mediterranean climate is felt in Lebanon, Palestine and Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Saudi Arabia is also without rain, dry and arid.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Climatic Regions : Distance from the sea, the continental location and the influence of local land formation have created three climatic regions in the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Hot Desert Climatic Region : The Arabian Peninsula and Egypt are included in this climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The difference between winter and summer is extremely felt in South Syria, South Iraq, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Oman, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The air remains always dry and without aqueous vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Cyclonic winds rarely produce rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Cold Desert Climatic Region : This region includes Iran and Afghanistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Aqueous vapour has no access because the place is surrounded by the mountain walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">So there is no rain but the place is very cool because of height.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The difference of temperature between summer and winter is very wide and so the climate here is extreme.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Mediterranean Climatic Region : Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Palestine, Israel, Sinai Peninsula, Cyprus and part of Egypt are included in this climatic region.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The westerly wind causes rain in winter but the dry trade wind coming from land cannot bring rain in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Since not a single part of the region is far from the sea, the climate is not extreme.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Agricultural System : Since plain land is scarce, agriculture has not flourished much in all the countries of the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Agriculture has actually developed in the river valleys and deltas.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Most of the places of the Middle East have dry agriculture system.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Irrigation farming is practised in the river valleys.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Crop rotation system of agriculture is followed in Iran.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Wheat is the main staple food of the people of this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Wheat is grown in every country.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Barley, maize, rice, millet, beet, cotton, tobacco, dates, silk, and different kinds of citric fruits are other agricultural products depending on places.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Stock farming is also found in suitable areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Agricultural land in Afghanistan records one-fifth of its total land holding.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The northern plains and river valleys in that country are widely used for farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Sometimes irrigation is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Wheat, barley, rice, maize, beet, cotton and tobacco are the leading agricultural products and fruits as grapes, pomegranate, pear and walnut are also grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Stock farming is also practised for wool and meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Iran's agricultural land accounts for only 10 per cent of the total land.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Excepting the coast of the Caspian Sea and the Persian Gulf, crops are grown elsewhere by irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Wheat, rice, maize, fruits, cotton, tobacco, opium, grapes and tea are the principal agricultural products.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">In the dry grassland, sheep and goats are tended.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Fishing has developed considerably.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Iraq is chiefly an agricultural country but only one, sixth of the land is used for agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Inspite of its soil being alluvial, the production is not very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In the southern part barley, rice and date while in the northen part barley, wheat and juicy fruits are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Among the cash crops, cotton is placed next to date.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Fine quality Egyptian cotton is grown in the area between the Euphrates and Tigris river.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Kurdistan produces lot of tobacco.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Mulberry plants are grown for silk worm in the district of Baghdad.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">In Turkey farming is done only in 30 per cent of its total land area though agriculture is the chief means of livelihood of its inhabitants.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">In the plateau region the principal product is the wool and skins of the goats known as Mohair.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Wheat and crops are also grown in favourable environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Tobacco, olive, silk, fig, grape, nut and other dry fruits and cotton are produced in the coastal areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Syria is also mainly an agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Crops are grown in the Euphrates valley with the help of irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Tobacco is grown in the coast but cotton is produced in North Syria.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Camel, horse, sheep, goat and thick tailed sheep are raised in the grassland areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Dates are grown in abundance in the oasis.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The valleys are developed into intensive farming areas of Lebanon.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Wheat, barley, tobacco, grape, olive and orange are grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Farming is also practised extensively in the plains near west coast and Beka valley.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Tobacco is grown extensively in abundance in the coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Agriculture has not developed much in Jordan.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Wheat, barley, maize, turnip, oat, grape and olive are the principal agricultural products.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Farming has developed in the plains of Israeli coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Wheat, barley, millet, potato, olive, orange, fig and grapes are grown in the fertile lands of Palestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Scarcity of water has, however created some obstacles in the agricultural practices.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Wheat and barley are grown in winter and maize and turnip in summer in the plain lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Intensive farming of fruit has developed in the northern part.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Fruits are grown in plenty in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">In Saudi Arabia, crops are grown in highlands and oasis.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Dates, wheat, barley, maize and millet are the main products.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Coffee is grown in favourable condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Natural Vegetation : No vegetation excepting grass and thorny shrubs are grown in the hot and cold desert areas extending from the Arab desert to the border of Afghanistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">In the Mediterranean climatic region comparatively smaller trees grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">But there is no grassland because the summer is totally without rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Temperate mixed tall plants grow in the north of Turkey and Iran.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">In the dry plateaus of Iran, thorny bushes are the only vegetation.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Gum Arabia is collected from these thorny bushes.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Valuable trunk wood are collected from the forest in the slopes of Elburz mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Deciduous trees grow in the coastal plains and Elburz mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Turkey has a number of forests in the north, north-west and south.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Fine quality oak, beech, far, elm, lime and pine are available in the deep forest of the east of Pontic mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Soft and hard wood are collected from the plains in the south.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Mineral Resources : The Middle East has a very rich deposit of mineral substances in different countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">But due to underdeveloped communication system and lack of proper technological knowledge, these valuable minerals could not be tapped.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Although in Afghanistan there are deposits of copper and iron ore, lead, silver, sulphur and salt in plenty but they are not mined.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Iron ore is deposited in Kurdistan, copper ore in Hindu Kush, and lead ore in Hazara.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Iran is rich in mineral deposits but there is not much progress in mining excepting petroleum oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Majority of the oil fields of this country are located in the south-western part.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Masjid-e-Sulaiman, Haftkhel, Pachshara, Agazari, Naft-e-Safid and Lali are the famous oil fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The largest oil refinery of the world is in Abadan of Iran.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Oil is pumped through pipes to Abadan from different oil fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Coal and iron ore are mined in north-west Iran.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Lead, manganese, copper, nickel, borax, chromite, zinc, sulphur, salt, rock and marble stones are available in Iran.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Petroleum is the principal mineral product of Iraq.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Kirkuk, Khanakil, Hadita, Habburnia, Bosra, Khurram Shah and Mosul are the reputed oil fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Petroleum is taken to Haifa of Israel and Tripoli of Lebanon through 1,850 kilometres long pipe from Kirkuk and exported abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Naft Kharech is an important oil field in South Iraq.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Kifri produces lignite.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">This country also produces a little quantity of mineral salt and gypsum.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Turkey is also rich in mineral substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Coal, iron ore, copper, petroleum, chrome ore, manganese, lead, zinc, antimoni, mercury and sulphur are the major mineral products.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Lebanon produces a little quantity of lignite, asphalt and bitumen.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Potash, mineral salt and phosphate rock are mined in Jordan.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Israel has limited production of the mineral substances such as manganese, gold, copper, chromium, lead and magnesium, sulphur, limestone and gypsum are also available.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">This country also produces potash, bromite and petroleum.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Petroleum is the major mineral product of Saudi Arabia.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Shower, Ab Quaik, Damman, Hufuf, Saphania, Bahrain, Katik and Khurmania are the principal oil fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Industry : Recently there has been considerable development of industry in the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Iran has developed production of modern machineries.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Among many industries cement, sugar, cotton, silk, wool weaving and turpentine production are famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Cigarette, soap, glass, fruit, and leather preservation industries have also flourished in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Tabriz, Ispahan, Tehran, Shahbad, Kerman and Samused are the principal industrial towns.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Iraq has not developed much in machinery producing industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The weaving industry, cement, soap, cigarette, vegetable, oil industries are worth mentioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Of the weaving industries blanket, carpet, wool, cotton, and silk cloth are famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">At present, Iraq has set up chemical industries, sugar industries and oil refineries.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">90 per cent of the industries are located in Baghdad while Mosul, Kirkuk and Bosra are other industrial cities.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Turkey has developed sugar, cotton weaving, wool weaving, glass, fig preservation, milk products and rose elixir processing industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Lebanon has also developed cotton, silk and rayon industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The metal work has become a cottage industry in Beirut and Tripoli.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Food processing industry is another important addition.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Salt refineries, oil refineries, tannery industries have grown up in Jordan besides food and fruit processing plants and cotton weaving industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Israel has cotton and woollen weaving industries in Haifa and Tel Aviv.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">There are many small industrial plants and cottage industries in the Jewish settlement area.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Small weaving plants have been set up in Majdal in Arab settlement.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The small lace industry in Nazareth has earned good reputation.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The diamond industry has grown up in Nathania and Tel Aviv.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Motor cars factory and household utensils assembly plants have developed with the help of imported parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The industries in Israel are glass, paper, fertilizer, chemicals, rubber and plastic industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Palestine is famous for small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">There are many cottage industries in the highlands of Judaea.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The small weaving industries of Gaza are well known.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Transport and Communication : Since ancient times, the camels, horses and mules were used as beasts of burden to transport goods in the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Band of merchants ran between the capital and the ports in Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Iran.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Now the communication system has developed as bus and trucks ply in wide metalled roads and highways.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Roads are the only means of communication in Afghanistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">There are about 6,700 kilometres of road.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Airways are used to travel to the neighbouring countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Iran has 2,600 kilometres long railway but roads have greater importance for transportation and the motorways are as long as 24,200 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Motorways and roads play comparatively more effective roles in internal trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Teheran, Tabriz, Meshed and Ispahan are the main airports and one can go abroad by air.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The two rivers Tigris and Euphrates are lifeline of communication system of Iraq.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Tigris is navigable round the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The riverways have contributed considerably towards the development of trade and commerce in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The railways are extended northward from Bosra.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Some of the railways are partly metre gauge.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The railway stretching from Baghdad to Bosra is of standard gauge.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Turkey depends mainly on railway communication though it has 74,000 kilometres of roads.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The trade and industry centres are connected by roads and railways.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Airlines maintain communication between Ankara and Istambul.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Roads, railways and airways have developed in Syria considerably.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Goods are transported by caravans of camels in the desert areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Lebanon has got roads, railways and airways.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Roads and railways are developed in both the plains and mountainous regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Standard gauge of railway lines are used in the plains while the mountainous regions have metre gauge lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Beirut is the main airport.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Jordan has got roads, railways and airways.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Camels are extremely used in the plateaus.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Roads have passed through the settlement areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The western part of the country has a long railway line having a number of branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Amman is a principal airport.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The roads in the plains of Israel are straight and wide having been 3,500 kilometres long.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The railway lines in Israel are of standard gauge.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Palestine : An agreement was signed in 1994 in the United States of America between Izac Rabin, Prime Minister, Israel and Yasir Arafat, President, PLO on the understanding that self administered Palestine is formed of Samara and Jerico of Israel, the two occupied small cities located on the west coast of Jordan rivers and Gaza strip.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The area of Palestine during that time was 2,410 square kilometres and the total population was only 17.31 lakh.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">At present, the total area is 6,220 square kilometres and the total population is 0.40 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Palestine has to depend either on roads or caravan of camels.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The principal cities of Saudi Arabia are linked by improved road communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">One can go from Jeddah to Mecca and Medina by motor car.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Motorways have connected Nazaf near Baghdad with Medina while railway has connected Dahrain, a port in Persian Gulf, with Riyadh capital of Saudi Arabia.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Majority of the habitations in Egypt have been developed in the Nile valley and so, the river Nile has become the leading means of communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The Suez Canal of Egypt is very significant in respect of international trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The main railway line runs from Alexandria to Aswan via Cairo.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Another railway line runs parallel to Suez Canal connecting Suez port in the south with port Said in the north.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Cairo-Suez railway is also important.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Egypt has both unmetalled and metalled roads and in the desert has camel path.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Foreign Trade : The hides and skins, cotton, carpet, dates, fruits, gums, wool, marble stone, including petroleum are exported from different countries of the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Cotton cloth, tea, sugar, machineries, railway carriage, motor cars, consumer goods, spices, medicine, paper etc. are imported.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Middle East countries have trade relationship with the United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and other countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Manpower : The countries in the Middle East have considerable limitations in technological know ledge and moreover manpower is also limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">This has resulted in large number of manpower import.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Many engineers, doctors, nurses, technicians, skilled and unskilled labour and drivers from Bangladesh are working in different countries of the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The country is being benefitted by the foreign currency they sent, particularly in the field of economic development and standard of living.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The Middle East Location, area and population : The Caspian Sea and the Black Sea are located in the north of the Middle East the Aegean Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, the Libya and Red Sea in the west, Sudan and Arab Sea in the south and Pakistan in the east.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Total area of the Middle East is 78,42,364 square kilometres and the density of population is 51 per square kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">People of Islam, Judaism, Christianity and Druz faith live here.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">96 per cent of them are Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Natural Vegetation : In the hot and cold desert regions, no plant excepting the thorny shrubs and grass can grow in the north of Iran and Turkey, temperate mixed tall vegetations are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Mineral Resources : Petroleum is the principal mineral product of the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Besides, Copper ore, iron ore, lead, silver, gold, sulphur, mineral salt, manganese, nickel, borax, chromite, zinc, marble stone, coal, antimony, mercury, asphalt, potash, phosphate, limestone, gypsum are mined in little quantity depending on the nature of the places.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Industry : In the Middle East, cotton and woollen weaving, match, soap, sugar, silk, carpet, cigarette, glass and skin preservation industries have been developed in varying degree in various countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The industrial products are consumed to meet the local demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Transport and Communication : Roads are the leading means of communication of the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Roads in every country are very developed and fit for motor traffic round the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Railway has not been developed in all the countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Only in Egypt and Iraq, passengers and commodities are transported by rivers in limited area.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Capitals of every country are connected with foreign countries by air.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Foreign Trade : Petroleum is the main exportable item of the Middle East.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Other exportable items are hides and skins, different mineral products, cotton, carpets, dates, fruits, gums, wool, marble stone, cotton cloth, tea, sugar, cloth, machineries, railway, railway carriages and motor cars, consumer goods, wool, medicine, paper etc. are imported.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
