<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.527</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">618</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">10444</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2321</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t75">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Plant requires metabolic energy for carrying out various physical and physiological activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They obtain this energy from food.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Plant body is composed of different kinds of chemical substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">But water constitutes the largest proportion of the plant body.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">All these chemical constituents are produced in the body by the various physiological processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Again, mineral salts are required for synthesis of different chemical substances such as carbohydrate, protein, oil etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Plants are required to absorb the primary constituents of these chemical substances from the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">That is why, plants absorb water and mineral salts from the soil through roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">But lower class of plants absorb water by osmosis, through the body surface or by some root like organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Plants absorb various mineral salts from the environment for maintaining life process and reproduction, as well as for repairing the losses and for growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">These are known as plant nutrients and the mineral salts are called the nutrient elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Chemical analysis of different types of plants have shown that for most of the plants total sixteen elements are essential for their normal nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Among these ten elements such as carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, hydrogen, iron, phosphorous, sulphur, potassium, calcium and magnesium are required comparatively in higher proportion.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">So these are known as macro-elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">While six other elements such as manganese, copper, zinc, molybdenum, boron and chlorine are required in traces.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">So, these are called micro-elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Different mineral elements are essential for various physiological functions of plants in varying quantities.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Because different mineral elements perform special functions in various organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">That is why, the normal nutrition of plant is hindered due to the absence or shortage of any one of the above mentioned sixteen elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The following table shows the significant roles played by ten nutritional elements and the nutrient deficiency symptoms caused by shortage or lack of these elements in plants.are</sent>
				<sent id ="21">absorbed from soil and atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Among the macro and micro nutrients only oxygen and carbon-dioxide are directly absorbed from the air and hydrogen is obtained through water.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">All other nutrients are absorbed by the root hairs from the soil in the form of their respective ions.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">But some algae and bacteria can directly absorb nitrogen from air.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Generally plant nutrients are available in the fertile soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Soil fertility increases by the decomposition and mixing of the remains of dead plants and animals in the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Fertility of cultivated lands can also be increased by adding cowdung.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">In fact, a lot of nutritive elements are added to the soil through the death and decay of plants and animals as well as through the decay of their excretory products.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Potassium Formation of protoplasm, cell division, and promoting production of flower, fruit and root formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Retard plant growth and development, delaying formation of flower and fruit; spot on the edges and tips of leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Calcium Formation of cell wall, helps in neutralizing poisonous effects on carbohydrate metabolism and nitrogen metabolism.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Spot on the edges/margins of leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Causes deformation and death of leaves and buds.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Drying of apical shoots of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Magnesium Major constituent of chlorophyll.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Facilitate carbohydrate metabolism, synthesis of fats and promote respiration Causes chlorosis in between the fine veins of leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Causes dropping of leaves untimely.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Iron Constituent of chlorophyll, helps in photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Develop chlorosis of the leaves through destruction of chlorophyll.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Occasionally the entire leaf is turned colourless.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Repeated cultivation and grazing reduces fertility of land which may be replenished, that is, the proportion of plant nutrient elements can be increased by adding artificial or chemical fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">For better understanding of the mechanism of absorption of water and mineral salts by plants, one must have a clear idea about the external and internal structural features of the root apex.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Root hairs grow just behind the tip of the root.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">These root hair absorb water and minerals from the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">If a cross section of root is examined under compound microscope, it is evident that a cell of the outer single-layered epidermis extends outwardly into a long hair-like structure, called the root hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">At the centre of the steler region lies the vascular or conducting tissue system, which transports water and mineral salts to stems, and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Root hair cells are living, their cell wall is thin and the cell membrane is semi permeable.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Water enters the root hair cell by the process of osmosis and the mineral salts by diffusion through the semi permeable cell membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">When two solutions of different concentration are separated by a semi permeable membrane, the solvent from the dilute solution moves through the semi permeable membrane to the solution of higher concentration.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The process is called osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The process continues until the concentration of two solutions are equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">In fact osmosis is a physical process.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">In plants since osmosis happens under the control of protoplasm, it is a physiological process.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Plants absorb water from soil through the process of osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">We need to know well, the process of osmosis first for understanding the mechanism of water absorption in plants by osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">If dried grapes are immersed in water, they become swollen and the water tastes sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">If the swollen grapes are put into highly concentrated solution of sugar, they will shrink again.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Why does it happen so?</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In fact, it happens as a result of osmosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Cells of grapes contain concentrated solution of sugar.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Moreover every cell is surrounded by a thin semi permeable cell membrane beneath the cell wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">In the concentrated solution of sugar in the cells of grapes, the number of water molecules is less than that of sugar molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">But the number of water molecules is much higher in the water of the pot in which the dried grapes are placed.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">That is why, water molecules from the pot enter the cells of grapes and the sugar molecules from the grape cells pass to the pot water.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">As a result, the grapes are swollen and the pot water tastes sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">If the swollen grapes are again put into concentrated solution of sugar, they will shrink again.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Because in this case, the number of water molecules in the sugar solution of the pot is less than that of the solution of sugar in the grape cells, so water comes out from the grape cells to the solution in the pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The process of osmosis can be easily verified or proved at home or in the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Materials: A few intact dried grapes, a small glass pot and some water.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Procedure: Take reasonable quantity of water in the pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Then put a few dried grapes in the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Observation: Observe the condition of grapes immersed in the water, after two hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It would be observed that the grapes have swollen.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Conclusion : It proves that as a result of osmosis water molecules from the pot entered the grapes, so they become swollen up.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The intake of water by plants from the environment by the process of osmosis is called absorption.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Absorption is also a physiological process.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Lower forms of plants absorp water by osmosis through their body surface or through some root like structures.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">But higher class of plants absorb water by osmosis through root hairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">If a cross section of a root with the root hairs is examined under a compound microscope a continuous connection of conducting cells between the root hair and the central pith would be revealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">In addition, every living cell contains vacuole, full of cell sap.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Generally the cell sap is more concentrated than the soil solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Again the cell sap has a higher concentration gradient from the root hair to the pith region.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">So, due to osmosis water from less concentrated soil solution enters first into the vacuole of the root hairs with more concentrated cell sap.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Later on, in the same process water gradually reaches from the root hairs to the endodermis cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">And under the influence of root pressure water from endodermis enters the xylem vessels and goes to different parts of the plant body.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Diffusion is a physiological process in which molecules of the substances pass from the region of higher concentration to the region of lower concentration.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">This process of diffusion continues until the concentration of molecules is uniform althrough.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">If atar or any other scented material container is kept open in any corner of a closed room, after some time, its scent could be felt from other corners of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Similarly, if one or two spoon of red syrup is slowly poured into a jug of water, it would be observed that, even without any stirring, the entire water of the jug has gradually turned into pale red.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Why did so happen?</sent>
				<sent id ="91">It so happened because of diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The rate of diffusion depends on the difference of the concentration of molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">If the difference in the concentration of molecules is greater, the rate of diffusion will be higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Again, if the difference in concentration is less, the rate of diffusion will be lower.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Of course, the surface through which diffusion occurs should be large as far as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Diffusion takes place in plants through cell surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The body of multicellular plants is composed of innumerable small cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Although individual cell's surface area is very small collectively they constitute a very large diffusion surface area.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">In fact, the root absorbs mineral salts by the process of diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">There are enough mineral salts in the soil solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Compared to that, the concentration of mineral salts in the root hair cells are more .</sent>
				<sent id ="102">So, minerals from the concentrated mineral salt of the soil area enters the root hair through diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">As a result, as in the Fig. 10.4 the concentration of mineral salts increases in the cell no. 1 than the neighboring cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">That is why the mineral salts from its concentrated area, i.e. cell no. 1 passes to the cell no.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Through successive repeatation of the cell to cell diffusion, mineral salts gradually pass from cell no. 1 to cell no.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">2, cell no. 2 to cell no.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">3, 3 to 4 and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">And this process of diffusion continues until the mineral salts enter the conducting xylem vessels through which they reach at the top of the stem .</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Accordingly, a continuous chain or flow of mineral salts from the root to the branches and leaves of the shoot system is established.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Water first enters in the root hair from the soil by the process of osmosis; from there it gradually passes from cell to cell and enters into the conducting tissues of the root.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Thus at one stage water reaches the mesophyll cells of the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Here we will learn, how water from the root reaches the leaves, how excess water is given off from plants in the form of water vapour and how the carbohydrate food prepared in the leaves is transported to different parts or organs of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The process of giving off excess water in the form of vapour through different openings in the aerial parts of terrestrial plants for physiological reasons, under the control or influence of living cells is known as transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">There are innumerable minute pores in the lower epidermis of dorsiventral leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">These pores are called stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The pore of each stoma is guarded by two special epidermal cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">These cells are known as guard cells (Fig. 10.5).</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Most of the transpiration (80-90%) occurs through the stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">This type of transpiration is called stomatal transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The upper transparent layer on the upper epidermis in known as cuticle.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Some water vapour from plants is also given off through the cuticle, which is called the cuticular transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Moreover, in some plants transpiration also takes place through the lenticels in the stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This is known as lenticular transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">During the process of transformation of stem epidermis into the cork or phellem, some openings or pores are formed surrounded by loose mass of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">These are called lenticels.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Mechanism of Transpiration Stomata generally remains open during day light and closed during the darkness in night.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">When stomata remain open air enters the leaf through the stomata and reaches the mesophyll cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Since the surfaces of mesophyll cells are always moistened, they can easily absorb carbon-dioxide from the air through the process of diffusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">On the other hand, water from these cells under the influence of temperature and the differences in the diffusion pressure is converted into water vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Then the water vapour is transported through the intercellular spaces to the air chambers beneath the stomata, from which it escapes to outside air through stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">This process of giving out of water in the form of vapour from living cells of plant is known as transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Plants absorb almost the same quantity of water from soil which they lose through transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The water lost from the cell wall of the mesophyll tissue is made up by absorbing water from the xylem tissues inside the veins of leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This is how a continuous flow of water is maintained from the root hair to the leaves through xylem tissues of the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Select a healthy plant with sufficient leaves grown in a pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Keep the soil wet in the pot .</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Carefully cover a portion of the shoot system with branches and leaves with a clear polythene bag and tighten its mouth with the stem so that the passage of air in and out is stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">After about half an hour it would be observed that droplets of water have deposited on the inner surface of the transparent polythene bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">This has happened because of the escape of water in the form of vapour from the wet mesophyll cell walls into the air as a result of physiological process.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Therefore, it is proved that water is given off in the form of vapour by the plants during the process of transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Transport system: Transfer of soluble inorganic and organic chemical substances in the plant is known as transport.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The special type of tissue system present in different organs of the plants for transport of materials is known as transport system or transport mechanism.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The xylem tissue present in the stem transport water and mineral salts from root to the leaves, and the carbohydrate produced in leaves through photosynthesis is transported along with water by phloem tissue to different parts of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">For better understanding of these upward and downward movements of sap, one need to have thorough knowledge about the internal structure of root, stem and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">There are conducting tissue made up of xylem and phloem, present in the stele of root, vascular ring of stem and in the veins of leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Here the xylem vessels are joined end to end and thus they together constitute a narrow tube extending through root, stem and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Of course, the xylem vessels are dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Phloem tissue surrounds the xylem tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Sieve tubes of phloem are also joined end to end to form tube like xylem vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Phloem tissues are living.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Water and minerals are transported from root to the leaves through the xylem tubes, or vessels, where as food prepared in the leaves are transported to the different parts of plant body through the phloem tubes.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The mechanism of ascending of water from the root to the stem, leaves and other aerial parts of plant is known as the ascent of sap.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Scientists have so far failed to ascertain as to how and in what method water from root ascent and reaches the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Even though many plant scientists consider osmosis, capillarity of xylem, root pressure etc. as the cause of ascending of sap, but this could not been proved experimentally.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The general conception about the ascent of sap is the first absorption of water from soil by root hairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Then through successive cell to cell osmosis water reaches the cells of endodermis.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">These living endodermal cells forces the water into the xylem vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">This is known as root pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The loss of water in transpiration from leaves creates a deficit of water in the capillaries of the xylem vessels, thereby creating a pull of water for rising to the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The minerals salts absorbed through the root hairs are also carried up along with water through the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The phenomenon of absorption of water and mineral salts by xylem tissues of plants can be demonstrated by a simple experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Carefully take out a fresh Peperomia plant from soil with roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Put the root of the plant into water for some time so as to allow removal of soil attached to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Peperomia plant is transparent and light green in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Then immerse the root system into a beaker of water, coloured red by adding two drops of red ink.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Observe the initial colour of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">After half an hour, it will be observed that the stem and leaves of the plant have turned red, because the root has absorbed red water and passed this to the stem and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">If a cross section of the stem is now examined under a compound microscope the xylem vessels will be seen turned into red because these contain red water.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Transport of carbohydrate food prepared in leaves and young green stems to different parts of the body is called transport of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Plants need food for survival, growth and maintenance.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Phloem tissues transport cabohydrate food prepared in leaves through photosynthesis to different parts of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The living cells in the phloem tissue are involved in the transport of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">That is why, food transport in plant is a physiological and an active process which takes place only in living plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Transpiration is very important for plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Transpiration carries out various important functions in plants such as absorption and ascent of soil sap (soil solution), transport of mineral salts to the leaves, increase in concentration of cell sap, increasing sweetness of fruits, absorption of water for photosynthesis etc. Besides, transpiration increases air humidity, keeps the environment cool and promotes rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">But sometimes transpiration causes harm too.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">If the rate of transpiration is higher than the rate of absorption of water, plant will droop and die due to want of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Plants constantly absorb water from soil to compensate water loss through transpiration, as a result energy is wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The relationship between transpiration and irrigation in the cultivated land is inseparable.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Generally plants absorb almost equal quantity of water from soil which is lost through transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Soil water gradually reduces because of continuous absorption by plants and loss through transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">This situation becomes more acute during summer, because of high temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">If such situation of water loss from the soil is not replenished through rain or irrigation, plants dry up and die.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">On the proper handling or maintenance of these two processes the production of crop is closely related and for this reason irrigation in the crop field is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Energy required for carrying out different physiological functions by plants and animals are obtained from carbohydrate food, which is produced during photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The primary source of carbohydrate food for animals are the green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Different animals obtain their carbohydrate food directly or indirectly from green plants through varieties of food chains and food webs.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">We will know here how the primary food producers, that means the green plants produce carbohydrate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Most of the photosynthesis occurs in green leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">So leaf is called the natural factory for synthesis of carbohydrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Carbohydrate food is also produced in this way in the young green stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">A thorough knowledge about the internal structure of leaf is necessary for understanding the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Here only the cells of the leaves which are directly associated with photosynthesis, are discussed briefly.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">If a cross section of a leaf is examined under a compound microscope, it becomes evident that leaves are composed of a number of layers of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The uppermost layer is called the upper epidermis.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">A kind of waxy substance is produced by these cells which forms a layer on the surface of the upper epidermis.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">This waxy layer reduces dehydration of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The layers of cells in the middle are together called mesophyll layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The mesophyll layer is divided into two layers, such as palisade mesophyll and spongy mesophyll.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Both of these layers are composed of simple parenchyma tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Palisade parenchyma cells are rich in chloroplast, and so most of the photosynthesis takes place in this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Spongy parenchyma cells are loosely arranged and so, they have enough intercellular spaces in between them.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Air can move through these intercellular spaces allowing the cells to absorb carbon-dioxide and to release oxygen produced during photosynthesis from the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Lower epidermis is the outer layer in the ventral surface of a leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Generally stomata occur in the lower epidermis.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Through the stomata air enters the leaves and reaches the inner cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Stomata remains open during day time for photosynthesis to occur, as a result air can enter the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Photosynthesis does not take place at night, so stomata remains closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Two guard cells of a stoma regulates the opening and closing of the stomata pore.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Guard cells contain chlorophyll, so, photosynthesis takes place during day time and as a result the stomata gets open.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Photosynthesis is a complicated process, in which carbohydrate is produced after a series of chemical reactions.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">This process is divided mainly into two phases, such as light phase and dark phase.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Light Reactions: In the light phase, chlorophyll absorbs light energy which is used to split water molecules into hydrogen and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Oxygen goes out through the stomatal pore and diffuses in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Hydrogen molecules take part in the subsequent reactions of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Dark Reactions: Hydrogen produced in the light reaction, after a series of successive complicated reactions, reacts with carbon-dioxide and produces simple carbohydrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">These carbohydrates are subsequently converted into various complicated carbohydrates as required by plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Even though these reactions may occur during day time, they do not require light energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">For storage in plant body carbohydrate produced in photosynthesis is changed to insoluble starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Oxygen produced in photosynthesis comes from water used in photosynthesis but not from carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">This has been proved by using radio isotope of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Experiment on production of starch in photosynthesis: Materials: A fresh leaf, spirit lamp, methylated spirit, iodine, beaker etc. Method: Boil a fresh leaf taken from sunlight in water until it softens.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Then boil the leaf in methylaled spirit so that all chlorophyll comes out of the leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">In order to avoid chance of catching fire in the spirit, the boiling should be carried out putting the container in a water bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Then after proper washing the boiled leaf in water immerse it in dilute iodine solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Observation: It will be observed that the leaf has turned blackish blue.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Conclusion: Starch has been produced in the leaf as a result of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Experiment on the release of oxygen in Photosynthesis Materials: A beaker, test tube, glass funnel, a quantity of water, and some aquatic plants or weeds, such as Hydrilla.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Method: Set the equipment and material as in the diagram of the textbook and put in the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Gas will be collected in the test tube by pushing down the water gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">When 4- 5 centimetre of the test tube is filled with gas, remove the test tube carefully and then examine the gas by putting an ignited wooden stick on its mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Result: The ignited stick bursts into flames.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Conclusion: Oxygen is released in the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The source of all energy in the world is the Sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">All living organisms use solar energy for carrying out various physiological functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">But the solar energy cannot be used as such directly, this has to be first converted into chemical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Only green plants on earth can convert solar energy into chemical energy which can be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">This conversion of energy takes place through the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The light energy from the sun is stored in the form of chemical energy in the carbohydrate produced in the green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">This energy is released by breaking down of carbohydrate food during respiration in the living organisms, which is used for their various physiological functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Atmospheric oxygen is indispensable for our life or survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Organisms use oxygen in respiration for releasing energy from food which is essential for physiological functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Carbon-dioxide is produced as a by-product of respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">In nature, if living organisms would continue respiration only, then oxygen would be exhausted, and the amount of carbon-dioxide would increase to such an extent that sustaining life would have been impossible.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Green plants maintain the balance of oxygen and carbon-dioxide in the atmosphere by producing oxygen and using carbon-dioxide in photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">From this it can be easily assumed that green plants are very significant for human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Green plants are the primary producer of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">So, if production of carbohydrate in photosynthesis is increased, more food would be available for herbivorous and carnivorous animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">This will increase their production, which is required for the growing population.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Scientists have proved that out of the total solar energy reaching the earth, only 1-2% is used, depending on situation, for production of carbohydrate in photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">That is, there is enough light energy for plants which if used properly, more carbohydrate can be produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Even though plants do not move like men and other animals, they also need energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Because energy is required for carrying out of various chemical and physical activities which take place in every living cell of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Again since plants go on growing through out their life, they need to produce new cells for growth of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Constituents of cells such as, cellulose, protein, nucleic acids etc. are to be produced for making new cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Energy is needed for production of these materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Energy is also required for maintenance of old cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Production of flowers and fruits for reproduction also require energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Even energy is required for transport of carbohydrate food, produced in photosynthesis to other organs of the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Here we will learn how plants obtain their energy from food through respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The process of breaking down of organic food (carbohydrate, protein etc.) through oxidation in presence of enzyme by oxygen in living cells with the release of energy and production of carbon-dioxide and water as by-product is called respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The energy released in respiration is used in energy consuming functions of the organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">In every living cell of the plants respiration continues 24 hours day and night.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Respiration takes place in the cytoplasm and mitochondria of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">But mitochondria in the cells are the principal organs for respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The organic compounds which are broken down to simpler substances through respiration are called respiratory substrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Carbohydrate, protein, fat and organic acids are used as the respiratory substrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Respiration is principally of two types, such as aerobic respiration and anaerobic respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Respiration which uses atmospheric free oxygen is known as aerobic respiration and respiration which takes place without utilization of atmospheric oxygen is called anaerobic respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Compared to aerobic respiration less energy is released in anaerobic respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Generally respiration means aerobic respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">In higher plants it is the normal respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">During aerobic respiration atmospheric oxygen enters the cells and gets dissolved in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">This dissolved oxygen completely oxidizes the respiratory substrate and liberates more energy (ATP).</sent>
				<sent id ="275">If glucose is the respiratory substrate, the entire process can be represented by the following generalized equation.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Glucose is a kind of high energy compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">If 180 gram glucose (gram molecular weight or mole) is completely oxidized 2830 kilo joules (686 kilo calories) energy is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The complicated biochemical process of respiration takes place through a series of sequential reactions, each of which is regulated by specific enzyme.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">However, the entire respiratory process is divided into two principal phases, such as - glycolysis and Krebs cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">In the first phase, one molecule of glucose (6 carbon carbohydrate compound) on oxidization produces two molecules of pyruvic acids (3-carbon compound).</sent>
				<sent id ="281">In the second phase, each of the 3 carbon pyruvic acid is converted into three molecules of carbon-dioxide, that means, a total of 6 molecules of carbon- dioxide are produced out of one molecule of glucose.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">In addition to these 6 molecules of water and a definite amount of metabolic energy (ATP) and heat are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">The first phase of respiration is known as the glycolysis and the second phase is the Krebs cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">The glycolysis takes place in the cytoplasm of the cell and the Krebs cycle occurs in the mitochondria.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">A number of energy carrier compounds known as adenosine triphosphate (ATP) are produced during respiration which are used by the cell as the source of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Select 200 germinating gram seeds for this experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Take out 100 seeds and boil them so that the embryos are killed and seeds can no longer carry on respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">When the boiled seeds are cooled, put 100 boiled seeds in one thermo flask and 100 living seeds in another thermo flask and seal their mouths with cotton plug.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Insert one thermometer through the cotton plug into each of the two thermo flask.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Keep the two flasks for 4-5 days in a safe place.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Everyday observe the temperature of each of the flasks.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">The flask which contains the boiled seeds will show only the room temperature of the day.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">But the flask containing the germinating seeds will show temperature higher than the room temperature of the day.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Therefore, it is proved that in respiration of germinating gram seeds heat is produced as by-product.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">It is a process of liberating energy from food without the use of atmospheric free oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">In this process food instead of completely breaking down, is incompletely oxidized producing a number of intermediate products, like ethanol.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Because of incomplete break down of the food, less energy is produced in anaerobic respiration than aerobic respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Except some lower species of plants, like bacteria and fungi, only a few organism can live entirely on anaerobic respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Only a few higher forms of plants can temporarily carry on anaerobic respiration while the land around their root system is flooded with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Yeast is an unicellular fungal plant in which anaerobic respiration is a normal process, produces carbon-dioxide and ethanol as intermediate product out of carbohydrate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Through anaerobic respiration the process of production of ethanol by yeast is known as fermentation.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Ethanol is used in different industries, as disinfectant on skin before pushing injection and as fuel in the spirit lamp.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Presently ethanol is mixed with petrol for reducing the cost of fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Yeast is mixed with dough making the bread porous and swollen, sugar mixed in the dough is oxidized in anaerobic respiration into carbon-dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">This carbon-dioxide inside the bread makes it soft and porous.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">However, if additional oxygen is supplied to the intermediate products, ethanol on complete oxidation will liberate remaining energy, carbon-dioxide and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Experiment on production of carbon-dioxide during anaerobic respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Materials: 10-12 germinating gram seeds, one broad test tube, one small beaker, one clamp with stand, one forceps, some caustic potash and some mercury will be required for this experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Procedure: Take some mercury in the beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Fill up the test tube with mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Now close the mouth of the test tube with the thumb and carefully put into the mercury in the beaker upside down.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Then put the beaker by the side of the stand and carefully fix the test tube with clamp so that there is a gap between the bottom of the beaker and the mouth of the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Now remove the outer coating of the germinating gram seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Insert the seeds into the test tube with the help of forceps.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">The seeds will float in the mercury and collect at the end of the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">While setting experiment care should be taken so that air cannot enter into the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Observation : If observed after two hours it will be seen that some gas has collected at the end of the test tube after displacing the mercury down.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Proof: At this stage if some caustic potash is inserted into the test tube with the help of the forceps, it will immediately absorb the gas, and the mercury will rise and fill up the test tube again.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">This proves that the gas produced in the test tube is carbon- dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Significance or necessity of respiration to living organisms is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Respiration continues day and night in every living cells of plants and animals and liberate energy on the breakdown of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Carbon-dioxide (CO2) produced as a by-product of respiration is utilized in photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Again oxygen produced in photosynthesis is used in respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">This is how respiration and photosynthesis ensure the continuity of life on the earth through maintenance of the balance, between oxygen (20.71%) and carbon-dioxide (0.03%) in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Less effective, less energy produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Some smaller, lower types of organisms, such as yeast, fungi, tetanus bacteria respire by anaerobic process.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Food is not completely oxidized or broken, energy is retained in the by- product.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">In most of the cases by- products are used in industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Occurs only in the cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Atmospheric oxygen is not required At the end of the reaction carbon- dioxide, ethanol and energy (less) are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">More effective, more energy is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Higher types of organisms, such as banyan tree, elephant which require more energy and respire by aerobic process.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Produces lot of energy on oxidative breakdown of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Occurs in the cytoplasm and mitochondria of cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Atmospheric oxygen is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Carbon-dioxide, water and energy are produced at the end of chemical reactions.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">growth, reproduction, maintenance of body etc. by living organisms is supplied through respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Growth is a natural process of living organism which takes place within the body as a result of metabolic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The shape and size of the body changes as a result of growth and development.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">There is a time limit of this growth for each of the animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">But there is no such time limit for growth in plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Of course, after attainment of maturity, growth is restricted only at the tips or apical regions of roots and shoots.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">The stems of dicotyledonous plants go on increasing in girth as a result of secondary growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Do we know how this growth takes place?</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Though growth is a normal characteristics of plants, the rate of growth is not uniform throughout the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Through growth plants attain maturity in shape and size.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">In natural environment a matured plant can survive better than a seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">A young plant easily becomes the prey of grazing animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Again, if the young plants are under the tall trees they are deprived of the sun light essential for preparation of food by photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Plants are also to compete for absorption of water and minerals salts from the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">To facilitate absorption water and mineral salts from soil, root spread their branches in all direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">The stem supports leaves, flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">If number of leaves is larger for absorption of sunlight, more food is prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Production of flowers and fruits increase, thereby increases the probability of reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">For these reasons, growth is essential for plants for successful survival through competition.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">All parts of the plant body more or less grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">But if observed specially it will be evident that the rate of growth is more in the apex of root and stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">The rate of growth of different parts of plants can be determined by a simple experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Experiment: Equipment and materials essential for determining the rate of growth of plants are some germinating bean seeds, black dye which does not dissolve in water, a thistle funnel, a bottle suitable for fitting the thistle funnel, black paper and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The radicle or the root of the germinating bean seeds have to be marked with the black dye at equal intervals from the base to the tip.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Then the seed is to be put into the mouth of a thistle funnel so that the root can pass through the tube and the swollen portion is on the upper side.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The tube of the thistle funnel has to be covered with the black paper, so that light can not directly reach the root.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">If observed after one day, it will be observed that the markings on the root are no more at equal distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">The region just behind root tip will show comparatively much increase in the distances between the markings.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">What is the reason behind ?</sent>
				<sent id ="366">The reasons are that growth has taken place in this region, the root has increased in length and as a result the distances between the markings have increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">A growing root can be differentiated into three regions; such as meristematic zone, zone of elongation and the zone of maturation. 1) Meristematic zone: Most of the root growth takes place in this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">The meristematic zone is located just behind the root cap.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Because of continuous cell division at this region the root grows.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">2) Zone of elongation: The zone of elongation is located just behind the meristematic zone.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Here, new cells produced in the meristematic zone attain maturity by elongating their cell walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">For this, the cells are to produce additional materials required for the formation of cell wall and cell membrane, such as cellulose, protein, lipid etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Since additional cytoplasmic materials are not produced proportionately, large vacuoles appear in the cells which have grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">3) Zone of maturation: The zone of maturation is located just behind the zone of elongation.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Here the new cells attain maturity.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">The branches of root develop from this zone.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Like root, the growing stem also has similar zones.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">The different zones in the growing root and stem have been shown in the following diagram.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">The mature regions of stem and root only grow in girth.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">We have learned about the cambium tissue in the chapter on cellular nature of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">These are meristematic cells capable of cell division.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">They generally produce new cells for production of xylem and phloem tissues.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Cambium produces new xylem tissues towards the centre and the phloem tissues towards the periphery.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">As a result, stem and root grow in girth, that means, go on increasing in diameter, such as mango, black berry, jackfruit etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">This is called the secondary growth of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">The plants (such as the monocotyledonous plants) in which secondary growth does not take place are generally made up of narrow stem, such as betelnut, paddy, wheat etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">How plant growth is regulated can be understood through a simple experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Experiment: If the apical bud of a growing stem is removed, then after several days it would be observed that the dormant lateral buds have started growing into branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">According to plant scientist, the reason is that a phytohormone named auxin is produced in the apical bud which promotes cell elongation in stem and inhibits the growth of lateral buds.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">This characteristic of apical buds is known as apical dominance.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Removal of the apical bud stops production of hormone in the stem apex, thereby stopping the elongation of cells of the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">As a result the lateral buds start growing.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">For this reason, instead of the whole potato, the potato tubers are cut into pieces each with one eye before sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Plants respond to stimuli.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Light, water, different chemical substances, heat, gravitation etc. work as stimuli.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The respond of a plant organ to stimuli is known as tropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">The respond of plant organ towards the stimulus is called positive tropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Phototropism: Since stems grow towards light, they are positive phototropic.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Again, roots grow away from the light, so they are a negative phototropic.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">What is the cause behind it?</sent>
				<sent id ="401">This can be explained by the following experiment with the coleoptiles of a young plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The first shoot coming out of a monocotyledonous seed is the coleoptile.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">The maize coleoptile grow by bending towards light.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">If its tip is covered with thin tin or if the tip is removed by a fine knife carefully it will no more bend towards light.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">From the above experiment, plant scientists have inferred that a kind of hormone is produced in the apical bud in presence of light which promotes growth of buds.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">If the tip or apical bud is covered or removed the hormone is not produced, as a result growth stops.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">b) Geotropism: During germination of seeds it is observed that the radicle grows down towards the soil, and the stem grows up opposite to the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">This is a positive geotropism for root.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">But for stem, it is a negative geotropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">C) Hydrotropism: Plant root grows towards water and the stem grows away from the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">This is why, root is positively hydrotropic.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">It has been observed by keeping water near the seedling that the root instead of growing directly downward bends towards water.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">d) Chemotropism: Growth in respond to chemical substance is known as chemotropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">The growth of pollen tubes towards ovules into the ovary through the style under the stimulus of a chemical substance secreted by the ovary is an important example of chemotropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">e) Thigmotropism: Bending response to the stimulus of lateral contact is called thigmotropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">The movement of sweet gourd, bean, bottle gourd plants towards the support are good examples of thigmotropism.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Influence of Light and Heat on Plants Influence of light and heat on seasonal growth and yield of plants is of highly significant.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Light and heat vary widely in different seasons and from country to county.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">As a result different types of seasonal plants and flowers, fruits grow in different seasons in different countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">In countries of the cold regions especially Soviet Union and Europe and some parts of America, this situation becomes extreme.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Growth of short-day plants stops in the coldest or ice-cold months in these countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Again with the advent of summer, plants grow faster in the long day hot weather and produce flowers and fruits before the commencement of winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Extremes of these kinds are rare in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Photoperiodism: Influence of the length of light-darkness or of day-night on flowering in plants is known as photoperiodism.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Examples of this kind of plants are Aman paddy, mustard, dahlia etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">In the advent of short-days of winter these plants start bearing flowering buds which later develop into flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Long-day plants: These plants require daily on average 12 to 16 hours of continuous light for production of flower buds, such as jute plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Day- neutral plants: These plants are not dependent on the light and dark period for production of flower bud, that means, they are independent of light dark.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Examples of these kinds of plants are cotton, gourd, chilli, papaya etc. Economically photoperiodism is of great significance.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">By applying this method crops of one season can be grown in another season.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">As a result, crops can be grown in suitable time thereby saving them from different types of natural calamities like flood, cyclone, hailstorm, diseases etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Moreover, production and marketing of crop of one season in another season brings more profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Photoperiodism is largely practiced in agriculture in many countries-The United States of America, United kingdom, the Netherland, Sweden, Denmark etc. So, in these countries vegetables like cabbage, cauliflower, lettuce, bean etc. and various other agricultural products are available in all the seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">The seeds of crop plants of the countries in the temperate and tropical regions are kept for 3-4 weeks respectively in low (0oC) and high (45oC) temperature treatment before sowing, they are found to produce flowers earlier than the plants grown from the seeds which were not treated with heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">From this, it can be understood that the application of required temperature treatment to seeds before sowing reduces the time required for flowering.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">That means, temperature determines the time required for flowering in plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">This process of hastening of flowering in plants by low or high temperature treatment before sowing is known as vernalization.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">In fact temperature influences life cycle of plants in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Plants in cold countries are capable of sustaining life in very lower temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Even though plants can generally survive under temperature below the freezing point, growth does not take place during that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">But with increase of temperature metabolic activity resumes at certain level, photosynthesis takes place and growth of plant starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Accordingly, a critical temperature level, affects flowering in many plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">The time of harvesting Aus and Boro paddy is also determined by the changes in temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Flowering and grain formation in boro paddy take place with the rise in temperature, but there must be a low-temperature level just prior to flowering and fructification.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Hence, receiving of low temperate at certain stage in the life cycle of plants or seeds to bring about flowering is called vernalization.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">The process of vernalization: It has not been clearly known or understood as to how temperature affects flowering.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">According to the Russian scientist Cajlachjan (1936) a kind of hormone known as florigen is responsible for flowering in plants whose effectiveness is dependent on concentration of another hormone called vernalin.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">If seeds get appropriate temperature treatment before sowing, the production of vernalin is accelerated.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">As a result, effectiveness of florigen is enhanced thereby expediting the flowering.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Vernalization process is specially applicable in case of the biennial carrot plants in the temperate regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">The carrot plants grown from seeds, store food in the tap root during the first year.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Even after death of the plants in winter the tap root survive, remains unaffected under the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Vernalization takes place in these roots during the lower temperature of winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">New plants grow from these roots in the second year utilizing stored food in the root, grow rapidly and flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">In the cold countries most of the seeds do not germinate until they are vernalized under such low temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">This process facilitates the survial and continuation of progeny by withholding germination of seeds under unfavourable weather of winter and by allowing germination under favourable conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">The temperature induced these activities are linked with the production of hormones.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Significance of Vernalization: Vernalization is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Most of the countries in the cold regions have brought about revolutionary advancements in their agricultural practices through the application of vernalization principle.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Normal agricultural practices in these countries are not possible because of severe cold weather and hailstorm almost throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Because of these, countries of the cold regions arrange crop production within the few months of favourable weather by applying vernalization principles.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Under these practices plants of one country can be easily adapted to unfavourable weather of another country.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">There is good prospect for revolutionizing our agricultural system by applying vernalization principles.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Under these practices, crops such as paddy, jute etc. can be grown in the shortest possible time and can be saved from the unfavourable impact of drought, water logging, flood, diseases etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">On the other hand, the same land can be used for multiple cropping.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">But for these initiative, endeavour and research are essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">We know that hormone is behind the growth of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Plants growth can be expedited by spraying artificial hormones.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">But plants which will be capable of absorbing more hormone will grow faster than others.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">The essence of this relationship between plants and hormones is applied in using many hormones as herbicides.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">While spraying special types of hormones in the crop fields, weeds with large leaves absorb more quantity of hormone than the crop plants with narow leaves, and consequently die because of unusual growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Crop plants absorbing lesser quantity of hormone survive and the soil become free of weeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">The extent of the use of hormone for suppressing the growth of weeds is very limited in our county.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">A hormone named 2,4-D is sometimes applied depending on the circumstances.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Hormone is also used in the artificial propagation or reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">The easiest method to produce plants with the characteristics of mother plants is cutting or grafting.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">But grafting is rather time consuming since it takes longer time for producing roots at the cut portion.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">In this case, very good results can be achieved by using hormone.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">If the cut portion of plant is immersed in the hormone solution roots grow fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">Reproducing a similar plant from another plant is known as reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">Plant reproductions can be divided into two types, such as- asexual reproduction and sexual reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">The reproduction which occurs without the fusion of male and female gametes (fertilization) is called asexual reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">Asexual reproduction is of two types, such as- reproduction by spores and vegetation reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">Spores: Many plants especially the non-flowering plants reproduce by producing special types of cells (spores).</sent>
				<sent id ="485">Plants like fungi, algae, moss, ferns etc. produce spore sacs for reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">In this spore sac one kind of unicellular spores are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">From each of the mature spore, new plants are developed under favourable condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">Vegetative Reproduction Production of new plants directly or indirectly from the organs other than the flowers and specially reproductive organs is called vegetative reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">The new plants generally bear the characteristics of mother plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">But in some cases new plant characteristics can be combined through this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">Vegetative reproduction takes place in two ways: natural vegetative reproduction and artificial vegetative reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">Fragmentation of body: Here a plant body is divided into fragments, each of which later develops into an independent plant, such as Spirogyra, Riccia etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">Root: Reproduction of plants through roots is of two types : Through normal roots e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">Through tuberous roots, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Here root eyes develop into new plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Stolon: Here new plants grow from the nodes of horizontal stem or stolon on the soil surface e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">arum, water hyacinth etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">In this process new plants are produced artificially from some plant parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">A few of such artificial vegetative reproductions are described here:</sent>
				<sent id ="500">1) Cutting: In this method a branch from a tree is cut and planted into wet soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">The branch develops into a new plant in a normal way, e.g., rose, variegatum, sugarcane etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">If hormone is applied, root formation is accelerated in the cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">Rooting or layering: In this method root is artificially grown in a portion of a young stem branch which is later cut along with the root and planted in the soil, such as layering, rooting etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">In rooting or layering, a low-lying intact branch of plant is pulled down and a portion of it is covered with soil or humus mixed soil is tied around the branch with the help of polythene sheet.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">After root formation the branch is cut with the root and planted in soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">3) Grafting: In this method generally two plants of the same type are grafted together where stem of one plant is artificially grafted with the branch of another (better type) plant to produce a new plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">The branch portion is called the scion while the stem portion is called the root-stock.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">In this process, at first the head of the root-stock is cut off with a sharp knife in a definite shape ( such as-N-shape).</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Later the lower part of the scion is cut in the same shape, and carefully fixed into the cut end of the root- stock and then tightly tied the two together with cotton thread after applying wax and fungicides.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">After the successful grafting the branches and buds from the root are to be cut off.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">Such artificial reproduction is possible in lemon types of plants and in mango.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">4) Budding: In budding, bud from one plant is planted into another plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">First a T- shaped hole is made with a knife in a suitable place on the bark of the plant in which the bud from another plant is to be planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">Then take a bud along with the epidermis with the help of a knife from the plant of which grafting is to be made, cut in the shape of T and then carefully put the bud into T shaped hole made earlier on the other plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">Then tie the bud with the stem with a thick thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">Reproduction through the union of male and female gametes is known as sexual reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">Here a zygote is formed by the union of male and female reproductive cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">From this zygote new generation of plants develop.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">Flower is the sexual reproductive organ of higher plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">The male and female reproductive cells are produced in the flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">Their union results in the production of zygote which subsequently produces fruits and seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">Seeds disperse around and germinate into new plants, thereby propagating the new plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">On maturity these new plants also produce flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">In this way, the life cycle of plant continues.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">The process of sexual reproduction takes place in several distinct steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">Such as- pollination, fertilization, production of fruits and seeds, dispersal of fruits and seeds germination of seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">Typical flower: For better understanding of sexual reproduction of flowering plants, we should have a clear idea about the structure of a flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">Calyx: Calyx protects the flower bud inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">These are generally green.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">Sometimes they are brightly coloured like the corolla.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">Corolla: In cross pollinated flowers the petals are generally brightly coloured to attract insects for cross pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">During the collection of nectar from the nectaries situated at the base of petals the insects bring about pollination in the flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">Androecium: A sac like structure at the end of stamen is known as anther.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">Pollen grains are produced in pollen sac.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">The stalk below the anther is the filament.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">Pollen grain contains male nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Gynoecium: The gynoecium consists of the ovary, style and the stigma.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">The female nucleus or the ovum is produced in the ovule within the ovary.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">The process of transfer of pollen grains from the anther to the stigma of the same flower or other flowers of the same species is known as pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">Pollination is generally of two types : self pollination and cross pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">Self pollination: The transfer of pollen grain from the anther to the stigma of the same flower or other flowers of the same tree is called self pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">As a result of self pollination hardly any variation or difference occurs in the new plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">As such they cannot easily adjust in changing environmental conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">But self pollinated plants are quite suitable for cultivation, because they develop flowers and fruits at one time, so their cultivation and harvesting of crops are easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">Transfer of pollen grains from one flower to another flower in different plant of the same species is known as cross pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">Variations occur in the plants produced as a result of cross pollination, which enables plants to adjust in changing environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">Such as some plants become taller than others as a result of variation.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">They are in advantageous position than the short plants in the competition for light absorption.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">There is need for a medium for transfer of pollen grains from anther to the stigma.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">Generally pollination is brought about by wind, water, insects and different animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">The types of pollination are named as per the name of the medium which brings about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">Wind pollination: Flowers pollinated by wind are called wind pollinated flowers and this process is called wind pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">Wind pollinated flowers are generally very small.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">Their pollen grains are too light so that they can float in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">Anthers of these plants produce innumerable pollen grains.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">The stigma of these kind of flowers are feathery like the feathers of birds so as to capture pollen grains floating in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">These flowers do not require brightly coloured petals and nectar gland.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">Paddy, wheat, grass etc. produce this kind of flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">Insect pollination: Flowers pollinated by insects are known as insect pollinated flowers and this process is called insect pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">Insect pollinating flowers are brightly coloured, scented, and have nectar gland.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">Because of the bright colour and scent, insects are attracted to these flowers and while they enter into the flowers to collect honey, the pollen grains get attached to their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">When the insects visit another flower of the same species for collecting honey, the pollen grains attached to their body then stick to stigma of that flower and thereby bringing about pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">Flowers of most of the plants are of this type.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">Water pollination: In plants like Vailisnaria (Patashewla), Hydrilla (Kata shewla) etc. pollination occurs through the medium of water and this process is known as water pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">Animal pollination: In some plants like silk cotton, kadam etc. pollination of flower is brought about by animals like birds, bats, squirrels etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">This type of pollination is known as animal pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">The fusion of male and the female nuclei is called fertilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">In fertilization, the pollen grain falling on the stigma produces pollen tube which passes through the style and ovary to the ovules.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">The number of chromosomes in the male nucleus and female nucleus is haploid, that is, half the number of chromosomes in the body cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">As a result, the number of chromosomes in the zygote produced out of their fusion is diploid.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">After fertilization the ovary of the flower is generally converted into fruit and the ovules into seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">The fruits and seeds, on maturity, are dispersed all around through different means and thus the plants propagate.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">Dispersal of Fruits and Seeds The scattering of fruits and seeds from the parent plant all around through various means is known as dispersal of fruits and seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">The process of dispersal is named after the name of the agent by which the fruits and seeds are dispersed.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">The principal means or media of dispersal are wind, water, explosive bursting of fruits and also animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">Water current: Fruits such as coconut, palm etc. float in water and are carried far away with the current of the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">Fruits of Nymphaea, lotus are also dispersed by water.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">Explosion of fruits: Many fruits when matured burst with speed and thereby scattering the seeds all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">Animal: Fruits and seeds are dispersed by animals in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">Juicy fruits such as mango, black berry, litchi, plum etc. are carried by men and other animals to long distances.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">After eating the fruit the residual portions are left there and help in dispersal of seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">Crows, bats while eating bean, plum, guava, jackfruit etc. seeds are often swallowed and enter the stomach but these seeds are not digested.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">The seeds are disposed off by their faeces.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Thus the seeds are disseminated far away.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">Grass seeds, such as those of love-thorn (chorekata) stick to the clothes of passerby and are carried far away.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">Seeds of this kind are also carried far away being stuck to the skin and fur of many animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">Importance of dispersal: Generally each flowering plant produces large number of fruits and seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">Sufficient land, water, air, light and space are essential for their successful germination, growth and development.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">So, dispersal of fruits and seeds are significant and essential for ensuring proper environment, necessary for propagation and the survival of species.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">We have learned that due to pollination ovule is fertilized and the seeds thus produced show variations because, the union of the male and female nuclei possessing wide varieties of characteristics bring about diverse characters in the progeny.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">Scientist Gregor Johann Mendel has proved how the paternal characteristics of plant are transmitted into the offspring through his experiment with pea plants and discovered a valuable theory.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">Mendel carried out his experiment with two pea plants, one being long and the other dwarf.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">He made cross-pollination of the plants artificially by transferring pollen grains from long plant to stigma of dwarf plant, and vice versa for reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">He also took precaution so that pollen grains from other plants cannot reach the stigma.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">After sowing the seeds produced in the above cross, he obtained plants which were all tall, none were dwarf.</sent>
				<sent id ="596">After bringing about self-pollination in one of the new plants, he obtained both long and dwarf plants and the ratio of long and dwarf plants was 3 to Mendel's theory is applied in the breeding of plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">Controlled sexual reproduction is brought about among the plants or animals of desired characteristics to produce progeny with diverse characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">Plants and animals of desired characters are produced by breeding among the selected plants and animals of desired characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">At present this method is largely applied in evolving crops of improved verities.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">Artificial Sexual Reproduction in Plants Some variations occur in the new plants produced from the seeds obtained from the zygote, formed by the fusion of the male nucleus in the pollen tube and the female nucleus in the ovule.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">Plant breeders can also evolve similar types of new plants by controlling the parent plants which produce the male and female nuclei.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">After careful trial, the best ones can be selected.</sent>
				<sent id ="603">Thus plant breeders can expect that the selected new varieties of plants will be high-yielding, resistant to diseases or capable of growing in special environment, such as saline soil paddy, deep water paddy etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">At least a few of the hundreds of young plants produced through controlled pollination will possess improved characteristics than their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">If such desired plants are found, and after completing the test they are found suitable, then as soon as possible large number of seeds and plants are produced through the breeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">Again, they can be propagated by artificial vegetative reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">The anthers of a bisexual flower are removed before attaining maturity.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">Then the flower is covered with a polythene bag and closed at the base.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">This flower will be used as the mother plant or female plant for fertilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">Then the pollen grains from the matured anther of selected plant will be quickly transferred with the help of brush and spread on the stigma of the prepared female plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="611">After this transfer of pollen grains, the flower is to be again covered with the polythene bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">As a result of fertilization seeds will be produced from this flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">These seeds will be grown and among them, plants of desired characters have to be selected.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">If the desired plants are obtained, the seeds from these plants are used to produce new plants and again if the seeds from the produced plants are used repeatedly sometimes there is a chance of losing the good characteristics of that plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">For this reason, the use of new seeds, instead of using the seeds of the successive generations, is helpful for better yield.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">That is why the plant breeders go on producing new varieties of plants continuously through breeding among new plants, to maintain the better characteristics in plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">Sometimes reproductive cells of some plants, especially the eggs produce embryo without fertilization and produce new plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">This process of producing new plants by female reproductive cells or the eggs without fertilization is called parthenogenesis, such as-Mucor, Spirogyra, banana etc.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
