<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.327</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">220</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2788</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">912</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t69">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The minerals have played the most important role in the increasing development of human civilization starting from the ancient period to the modern age.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">We have already known about two thousand minerals from stone salt to gold, silver, copper, iron, pencil lead, precious stones, diamond etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Out of these 100 minerals are very familiar to us while others are very rare.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">From ancient time men have known that there are mines under the deep earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The minerals are to be derived by digging the earth crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Iron, aluminium, cement etc. are manufactured from these minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Buildings, houses, fertilizer for agriculture, chemicals for industries-all these are made from minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Now the question is, what are minerals ?</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In general sense, the substances which are obtained from deep under the earth`s surface are minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">In broad sense, the constituents of different rocks are minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">In other words different minerals combine together to form rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">A mineral is a compound which is formed by the chemical combination of two or more elements present in the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">There are also minerals which are made by only one element such as diamond, gold, sulphur, copper etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Diamond and gold occur in nature as element.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Sulphur, copper etc. occur in nature as free and combined state.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The sources of minerals are inside of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">This was the earlier conception.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">But at present this concept is not considered true.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Some minerals are found to deposit in the earth's crust, such as iron mineral (hematite), aluminium mineral (bauxite).</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In some cases the valuable minerals like coal remain in the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">These types of mineral source are called mines in the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Again we are to dig bore deep under the earth's crust to obtain minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">In many cases minerals are deposited between the layer of rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">In south Africa gold mines have been discovered three kilometres under the earth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">This source of minerals is called mine under the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">We have known that very few substances occur in nature or mines in the free state.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Most of the minerals occur in the form of compounds of more than one element.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">To extract a particular element a mineral is to be selected in which the element is present in sufficient proportion and can be separated and extracted by any easy process.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The mineral from which an element can be extracted easily or economically in large quantities is called an ore of the element.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">For example, hematite which is actually a compound of iron and oxygen occur in mines as hard crystalline and fabric like substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Like metals, non-metallic ores also occur in the earth's crust, from which the respective element can be extracted.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">For instance, beryl is the ore of beryllium, ore of carbon is graphite, coal etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Some ores of element occur in mine in the free state.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Among the metals, platinum, gold, silver and mercury remain in nature in free state in small proportion, while most of the metals exist as compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The compound ores of metals contain metallic oxides, sulphide, carbonate, sulphate, nitrate etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">In nature all the ores are mixed with soil, sand and various undesirable impurities.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">These impurities are called gauge.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Generally the gauge is removed at high temperature while the ore is decomposed and separated into metal.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Electrolysis process is used to extract some metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Electrolysis is carried out by connecting two metal rods dipped into the molten or dissolved ore to the electric source.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Some non- metals are extracted from mines in the free state, such as sulphur, carbon etc. Iron is a metallic element.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The use of iron was known from ancient period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Iron is obtained as mineral of various compounds in the earth's surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">But the important ores of iron are hematite, magnetite, limonite, siderite and pyrites.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">In industry the iron ore is mixed with coke (carbon powder) and lime stone and the mixture is melted at a very high temperature in a special type of furnace called blast furnace.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">As a result, the various impurities of iron are eliminated.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Molten iron settles down at the bottom of the furnace.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The molten iron is then cooled in moulds.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The iron thus obtained is called pig iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">During the production of pig iron little carbon (about 4%) is mixed with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The iron obtained after removing this carbon and other impurities is called wrought iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Pig iron is hard and brittle but wrought iron is soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">These two types of iron are not suitable for usable purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Therefore, a type of iron with different properties other than those two types of irons have been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Iron containing carbon at the proportion of 0.08 to 1.5% is called steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The quality of steel depends on the proportion of carbon in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The percentage of carbon in steel less than 0.5 is called soft steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The percentage of carbon in steel more than 0.5 is called hard steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The quality of steel is improved by mixing one or two elements along with carbon, such as nickel and chromium.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Mixed steel does not rust and this steel is called stainless steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The surgical equipments are made of this steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Thus in this way by mixing other metals, special types of steel for special purposes can be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Hard steel after heating is cooled in water and hammered to make it malleable.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">This process is called tempering of steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">For different purposes different types of tempering are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">For example the steel for cutting iron is different from the steel for making springs.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">During tempering the steel is heated at different temperatures to make steel of different qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It can be moulded into lumps but cannot be bent or twisted.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">It can not be hammered to make some article or can not be welded together.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Wrought iron is not brittle but soft and can be hammered to make sheets, can be joined together.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Steel can be joined by hammering.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">It can be used to make permanent magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Different types of steel such as hard, soft, brittle, strong and stainless steel can be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The use of iron is manifold among all other metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Starting from simple pin to big ships, high rise buildings etc. iron and steel are essential to make all these.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">In sewerage system iron pipe and manhole cover etc. are made by pig iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Wire gauge, electromagnet, railing, grill, gate etc. are manufactured from wrought iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The uses of steel are so manifold that these are beyond description.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Different types of steel are used to manufacture knife, scissors, watch, magnet, plate, glass, engine, railway line, wheel, machine gun, tanks, bridge, culvert, toys, agricultural equipments, medical instruments, factory machinery etc. and other uncountable things.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">When iron and steel made substances are exposed to air for a long time, a reddish brown coloured coating is found on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">After a certain period of time it begins to break like fish scalps.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">In presence of moist air iron reacts chemically with oxygen of air to produce one kind of iron oxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Rusted iron materials wear out gradually and become brittle and finally become useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">It is more economic to prevent rusting of iron materials than to purchase it new again.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Usually rusting can be prevented by covering the metal with paints or grease and by applying oil or grease on the rotating parts of the machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Thin layer of zinc is coated on iron materials by immersing it into the molten zinc.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Coating of zinc on iron materials prevent rusting on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Generally tin cans of powdered milk or other food packing items are made of iron or steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The method by which coating of thin layer of zinc on another metal is called galvanizing.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">A very fine coating is done on many iron and steel materials through electrolysis.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Coating of nickel, aluminium, gold, platinum etc. can also be done on iron by electroplating.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Not only that, the metal looks more shiny and attractive and it becomes long lasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The special steel made by mixing nickel and chromium with iron is known as stainless steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The hard substance formed by homogeneous mixture of two or more metals is called alloy.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">For example, by mixing molten zinc with molten copper in any proportion and after cooling, a hard substance is obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The physical properties of metal alloy are different from those of constituent metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">That is, in alloys the colour, malleability, ductility, electric conductivity etc. of constituent metals are changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The melting point of alloy is lower than the original metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Bronze made by mixture of copper with tin, brass is a mixture of copper with zinc.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Stainless steel is also an alloy like bronze and brass.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Aluminium is the most abundant in the earth's crust among other metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">But aluminium does not occur in nature in free state.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Aluminium occurs in combined state with other elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It is very light, its specific gravity is 2.It can be hammered to sheets and into thin wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It is very good conductor of heat and electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Moist air produces a thin film of the oxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">But it does not lose its brightness while the oxide protects aluminium from further action of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Hence it is not as harmful as rusts on iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Aluminium is used to make cover materials for packing of chewing gum, cake, chocolate and even to make aeroplane bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It is widely used to make electric wires, cables and cooking utensils.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Aluminium alloy is used for making aeroplane, motor car, bridge, door and window frame, toys etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Duralumin is one of the alloys of aluminium.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Duralumin is made by mixing copper, magnesium, manganese with aluminium.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Besides these, mirror polish, varnish, flash of camera, filament of light bulb are made of aluminium.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">A long lasting bright, lustrous and silvery varnish is made by mixing aluminium powder with varnish oil or linseeds oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Ores of different non-metals occur in mines like the ores of the metals which remain in mines.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Some of the ores of non-metals occur in nature in pure and elementary state</sent>
				<sent id ="118">This property of the same element shows the different physical properties in nature but there is no difference in chemical properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">In other words some non-metals show differences in physical properties but in chemical properties they are the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Such types of element are known as allotropic elements and this property of elements is called allotropic modifications.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Carbon exists in nature in different allotropic forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Such as diamond, graphite, animal charcoal, coke, wood charcoal, lampblack or soot etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">These are the allotropic modifications of carbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Sulphur and phosphorous are also two allotropic elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">There are four varieties of sulphur and two varieties of phosphorous which exist in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Two special allotropy of carbon are diamond and graphite.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Under the deep earth at high temperature and pressure for crores of years, carbon crystallizes to produce graphite and diamond.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">It is a good conductor of heat and electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It has wide application as electrode.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The black rod that we find inside the torch battery is made of graphite.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Graphite is soft and soap like slippery.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Due to this it is used as lubricant or slippery agent in machineries.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">When rubbed on paper, it makes a black mark.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">So it is used in making wood pencil.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Graphite is a Greek word which, means I write.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Different types of pencil sticks are made by mixing clay in different proportion with graphite.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The hard and thin pencil lead contains more proportion of clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Soft and thick pencil lead contains more proportion of graphite.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Diamond is the hardest of all the natural substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Most of the diamonds in the earth are obtained in South Africa.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Diamonds can be prepared by artificial way.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Diamonds occur in nature as crystalline form.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Usually diamond is transparent and colourless.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">It looks lustrous because light rays bent while passing through it.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Applying special technique diamond can be cut into a gradient of multiple planes so as to increase its brightness.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Diamond is non-conductor of heat and electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Original and artificial diamond can be detected by X-ray.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">X-ray can pass through the original diamond, but can not pass through artificial or fake diamond.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Diamond is being used as precious gem in the jewellery from ancient period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">There is a special type of diamond which is black in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">It is called carbonados.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">This diamond is very hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It is used for cutting glass and polish work.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Some dyes are also made by diamond powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The carbon which is found in nature or mines as non-crystalline or amorphous form is coal.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">It is deposited in layers after layers in mines like black rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">This coal is very important to produce heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">We are also familiar with some charcoals other than coal.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">For example, charcoal formed by burning of wood in presence of insufficient air is called wood charcoal.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">This is another allotropic modification of carbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Animal charcoal and activated charcoal are the other two allotropic modifications of carbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Destructive distillation of animal bones and blood in a closed container produce charcoal.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">This is known as animal charcoal.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Animal charcoal is of two types; bone charcoal and blood charcoal.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Through destructive distillation of animal bones, bone charcoal is obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The bone charcoal is treated with hydrochloric acid to produce ivory black.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Similarly blood charcoal is obtained by destructive distillation of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">This charcoal can absorb coloured substances from solution for which it is used as bleaching agent.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Animal charcoal is used for refining and decolourizing raw sugar and ivory-black is used as black pigment.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">When wood charcoal is heated at high temperature in presence of limited air is called activated charcoal.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Activated charcoal is generally obtained by heating the shell of coconut at 850o - 900oC in limited air.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Activated charcoal is used in gas- masks and filter.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Sulphur was known to man from ancient period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Most of the sulphur occurs in a free state in nature in the pure form.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Naturally produced sulphur is crystalline.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Ordinary sulphur is bright yellow in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">It is insoluble in water but dissolves in carbon di-sulphide.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Sulphur is a non-conductor of heat and electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Sulphur is an allotropic element.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">It has four allotropic forms which are rhombic sulphur, monoclinic sulphur, plastic sulphur and white sulphur.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Sulphur is a highly active element.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It reacts with almost all metals to produce compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">It burns in air with blue flame and produces a very pungent suffocative gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The name of this gas is sulphur dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The gas is highly poisonous and germ-killing.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">It is used as bleaching agent.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Sulphur is the main raw material for the manufacture of sulphuric acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Gun powder is produced by mixing sulphur, carbon and potassium nitrate in definite proportion.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Rubber can be made hard, soft and long lasting by heating it with sulphur.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">This is called vulcanization.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Sulphur is used for preparing disinfectanting medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Sulphur is also used in match industry, dye industry and fertilizer industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Sulphur dioxide is used in paper industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Phosphorus is a non-metallic allotropic element.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Phosphorus is a Greek word which means `luminous.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">It glows in the dark due to which it is named phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Phosphorus is a very reactive element.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Phosphorus exists in nature as compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The main sources of phosphorus are animal bones, yellow portion of egg, milk, curd, fish etc. even the beans contain phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Like sulphur, phosphorus exists in nature in crystalline form.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Its crystals are of two types.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">That is, it exists in two allotropic forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">These are white phosphorus and red phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Phosphorus is translucent and almost soft like wax.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">When phosphorus is exposed to air, it glows with a greenish white light.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">This is the mystery of its glow in the dark.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Phosphorus is insoluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">So it is preserved under water in a bottle.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It is highly poisonous.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">By touching this with hand or if it comes in contact with skin, the skin is corroded which can not be easily cured.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Red phosphorus has no smell and does not glow in the dark.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">It does not burn easily and is less poisonous.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Phosphate and super-phosphate fertilizers are manufactured from phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Red phosphorus is widely used in match industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The gun powder or the two sides of a match box is actually a mixture of red phosphorus and powdered glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">This is coated with rain tree gum.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Mixture of sulphur, antimony sulphide, lead oxide or potassium chlorate is attached on the top of the match sticks using rain tree gum.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Heat is produced and fire burns when the coated end of the stick is rubbed with coated portion of the box.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">A match box is an essential item in our daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Hence the importance of red phosphorus is indescribable.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
