<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-11</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.044</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">742</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">9724</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2552</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t58">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Human beings are not only the most superior of the animals, but also of all creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">With their intelligence, human beings have been able to establish their superiority over all living things.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Brain is the centre of intelligence in human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">It is also the centre of all co- ordinated activity that endows human beings the ability to prove its superiority over all.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Like other multicellular living things, human beings also develop from the embryo to attain its full stature.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Depending on the structure and function, the cells of the body are organised into tissues.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Different tissues are grouped together to form organs, and several organs together form organ systems.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The co-ordinated activities of the organ systems contribute towards the superiority of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In addition, human beings have intelligence and a keen sense of judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">In this chapter, different organ systems of human body are discussed.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Skeletal system consists of bones and cartilage.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">It gives shape to the body and protects the internal organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The human skeleton is endoskeleton.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The endoskeleton cannot be seen from outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Skeleton is formed with bones and cartilage.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Bone: The bones are formed of living bone cells and inorganic compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The inorganic compounds in bones are calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Under normal conditions, the bones contain about 4045 percent of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The bones are supplied by nerve, blood and lymph.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The different bones of the body join with others to form the endoskeleton.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The region of union between two or more bones is called joint.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Some joints are absolutely immovable, such as the joints in skull bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Some are slightly movable joints, such as the joints of the vertebra.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Besides, there are more than 70 freely movable or synovial joints.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The bones of freely movable joints are covered with smooth cartilage held together by dense connective tissue or ligaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">These joints contain an oily substance'synovial fluid, that helps in smooth movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Elbow joint and shoulder joints are examples of synovial joint.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Body structure: It serves to give the body a definite structure and shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Protection: It affords protection to soft organs from external injury.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">For example, brain, spinal cord, heart, lungs, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Locomotion: The muscles are attached to different bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">This helps in the contraction and relaxation of the muscles bringing about movement of the bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">This results in locomotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Red blood cell production: It is in the red bone marrow, which some of the bones contain, that red blood cells are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Store: The bones store calcium and phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The 206 bones of the body are joined with one another to form the endoskeleton (Fig: 12.2) of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">According to the arrangement, the endoskeleton can be divided into four parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">1) Skull: Resting on the first vertebra is the skull.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The 29 strong bones together form the round hollow chamber called skull or cranium.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The cranial cavity of skull protects the brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Besides, jaw and cavities for sense organs (nose, ear, eye) are present in the skull.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The spinal cord extends from the posterior end of the brain and passes through the foramen magnum in the postero-inferior part of the skull.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">2) Vertebral column: From below and under surface of the skull the vertebral or spinal column starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">It consists of 33 bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Each bone is called vertebra.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Each vertebra (Fig: 12.3) has a body called centrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">A vertebra has a tubal canal called neural canal.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The neural canal of all the vertebrae form a continuous canal for the spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Besides, each vertebra contains dorsal spine and transverse processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">According to the position of the vertebrae they are divided into five regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">For example Cervical vertebra: These are 7 in number and located in the neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Thoracic or dorsal vertebra: These are 12 in number and located in the thoracic region.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">There are twelve pairs of ribs in thoracic region.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The heart and lungs are protected within the thoracic cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Lumber vertebra: These are 5 in number and located in the lumber or waist region.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Sacral vertebra: These are 5 in number, which are fused to form the sacrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Coccyx vertebra: These are 4 in number, located at the terminal end of the vertebral column.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">These vertebrae are fused to form the coccyx.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Function of Vertebral Column The vertebral column bears the weight of the body, protects the spinal cord, forms the thorax, and gives attachment to muscles to help in locomotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Upper limb The upper limb is formed of the shoulder girdle and the bones of the arm.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Shoulder girdle: There are two separate shoulder girdles.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">With the help of this girdle the arm is attached to the vertebral column.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The shoulder girdle is formed of scapula and clavicle.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The humerus is attached to the hollow at one end of the scapula.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Humerus: The humerus extends from shoulder to elbow.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Radio-ulna: The 2 bones, radius and ulna, extend from elbow to wrist.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Carpal bone: The eight small carpal bones are arranged in two rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">They form the wrist.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Metacarpal bone: Metacarpal bones are 5 in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">They are long narrow slightly bigger bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They form the palm of the hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Phalange: The bones of the fingers are phalanges.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">They are 14 in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">4) Lower limb The lower limb is formed by the pelvic girdle and the bones of the leg.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Pelvic girdle: The pelvic girdle is formed by the ilium, ischium, and pubis bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">These bones fuse to form the hipbone, and the two hipbones together form the pelvic girdle.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The sacrum and coccyx are located between the two hipbones.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The femur is attached to the hollow in the pelvic girdle.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Femur: The femur extends from the hip to the knee.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The femur or thighbone is the strongest and longest bone in the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Tibia-fibula: The two bones, tibia and fibula, extend from knee to ankle.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">At the front of the junction of tibia-fibula with femur there is a rounded bone called patella.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Tarsal bone: There are 7 small tarsal bones that lie below the tibia-fibula.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">These bones form the ankle of the foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Metatarsal bone: The metatarsals are 5 in number that are attached to the tarsal bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">They form the sole of the foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Phalange: The bones of the toes are called phalanges.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">They are 14 in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Muscular System Muscle: Muscle cells form the muscle tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Muscular tissues form about 4050 percent of human body weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Three types of muscles form the muscular system of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">a) Voluntary muscle: The muscles that can be voluntarily regulated are called voluntary muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">As they help in movement and locomotion of the body, they are Variegation of Human Body 169 also known as skeletal muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The voluntary muscles are commonly referred to as flesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">These muscles are located at the junctions of big bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">b) Involuntary muscle: The muscles that are not under voluntary control are called involuntary muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">These muscles are present in the walls of the alimentary canal, blood vessels, urinary bladder, uterus, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">c) Cardiac muscle: The special type of involuntary muscle found in the wall of the heart is called cardiac muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The contraction and relaxation of cardiac muscle functions to regulate the flow of blood by the heart through the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Relationship of skeletal and muscular systems: There is an important relationship between the skeletal and muscular systems.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The muscles are attached by means of tendons to the bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The contraction and relaxation of the muscles help to move the different parts of the body and thus help in locomotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Common Diseases and Problems of Skeletal System Rickets:</sent>
				<sent id ="104">When the growing children have deficiency of vitamin D, calcium and phosphorus they suffer from rickets.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">In this condition, the bones cannot grow normally.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Often the bones bend.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Intake of a balanced diet and proper care can prevent this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Arthritis or getebat: In this condition there is inflammation or pain in the joints.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The joint movement is restricted.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Living in healthy conditions and seeking treatment in the early stages can prevent the disease from progressing.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Bone dislocation and fracture: Due to injury or severe pressure, the bone may be dislocated from its normal position, or fractured or cracked.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Bone dislocation may cause damage of the ligaments and muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">In case of fracture or dislocation, after initial first-aid, help of experts should be taken as soon as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Most of the food that we eat is complex food.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The complex food substances cannot be absorbed and directly utilised by our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The body process by which complex, insoluble food substances are broken down, under the action of enzymes, into simple soluble substance capable of being assimilated in the body is called digestion.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">With the help of specific enzymes, digestion converts the carbohydrate type of foods into glucose.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Similarly, protein type of food is converted to amino acids, and fat or fatty food into fatty acids and glycerol.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The system by which digestion of food occurs is called the digestive system.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The digestive system is divided into two main parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">These are alimentary canal, and digestive glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The human alimentary canal extends from the mouth to the anus.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">It is a coiled tube about 7.5 metre long.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Mouth aperture: The mouth aperture is an opening below the nasal aperture.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">It is bounded by two lips.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">This is the beginning of the alimentary canal.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Function: Its function is to allow food to enter the alimentary canal.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">b) Buccal cavity: The mouth aperture is followed by the buccal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The buccal cavity contains two mandibles that have different kinds of teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">There is a large tongue on the floor of the cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The tongue is muscular and glandular.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Three pairs of salivary gland are also present.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The salivary glands are connected to the oral cavity by separate ducts.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">With the help of teeth, the food is bitten and masticated.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The tongue helps in taste sensation and swallowing of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The saliva from the salivary glands helps to make the food slippery and digest food.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">c) Pharynx: The part next to buccal cavity is pharynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Function: It conveys the food materials from buccal cavity to oesophagus.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">d) Oesophagus: The oesophagus is a muscular tube about 25 cm long.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">It extends to the stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Function: This conveys the food to the stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">e) Stomach: Stomach is a bag-like structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It has a thick muscular wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The wall of the stomach has numerous glands called gastric glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Small intestine: The relatively long coiled tube extending form the stomach to large intestine is the small intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The small intestine is again divided into three sections'duodenum, jejunum and ileum.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The common bile duct opens into the duodenum of small intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The common bile duct conveys bile from the liver and pancreatic juice from the pancreas.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The villi are present in the inner lining of the ileum of small intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Each villus contains intestinal glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Function: The chief functions of the small intestine are digestion and absorption of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Large intestine: The relatively wider tube extending from the ileum to anus is the large intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Large intestine has three parts'caecum, colon and rectum.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">To the caecum is attached an extension called appendix.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Function: Water is absorbed, stool is formed and stored temporarily in the large intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">g) Anus: The terminal opening of the alimentary canal is the anus.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Function: Expulsion of stool.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Digestive gland: The glands that produce juice, which help in the digestion of food are called digestive glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The digestive glands in human body are as follows:</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Salivary gland: Human buccal cavity has parotid, sublingual and submandibular salivary glands that open in the buccal cavity by their respective ducts.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The salivary glands secrete saliva.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Saliva contains water and an enzyme ptyalin.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">b) Liver: The liver is placed under the diaphragm on the right of the stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">It is the largest gland in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">A gall bladder is attached to liver.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Bile, a green coloured juice secreted from the liver is stored in the gall bladder.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The bile from the gall bladder passes through common bile duct to the duodenum.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Besides producing bile and performing other functions, liver converts the excess glucose to glycogen and stores it.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">c) Pancreas: The pancreas is situated below the stomach and duodenum.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The juice 172 Secondary General Science secreted by pancreas is called pancreatic juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">This juice passes through the pancreatic duct, and then through common bile duct to reach the duodenum.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Pancreas also produces the hormone insulin.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">d) Gastric gland: Gastric glands are present in the wall of the stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The glands secrete a digestive juice called gastric juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">e) Intestinal gland: The villi in the wall of small intestine contain numerous intestinal glands, which produce the intestinal juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Enzymes are organic chemicals and protein like substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The living cells produce enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Enzymes act as organic catalyst that accelerate chemical reactions.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">b) They can work best at a particular temperature, and are readily destroyed by elevated temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">c) A specific enzyme performs a specific function.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">For example, the enzyme trypsin acts only on protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It acts best at a particular level of acidic or alkaline environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Teeth: Teeth are the strongest part of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">On each of the two jaws within the buccal cavity there are usually 16 teeth totalling In human beings, eruption of teeth occur twice: first time'milk teeth in childhood;</sent>
				<sent id ="185">and second time'after the milk teeth fall off, the permanent teeth erupt up to the age of 18 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Incisor tooth: This tooth is used to bite or break food.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">b) Canine tooth: This is used to tear food.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">c) Premolar tooth: This is used to grind and masticate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">d) Molar tooth: This is used to grind and masticate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Structure of the tooth: The composition of each tooth is as follows:</sent>
				<sent id ="191">a) Dentine: The tooth is mainly formed by a hard substance called dentine.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">b) Enamel: Covering the crown of the tooth over the dentine is a hard substance called enamel.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Both dentine and enamel are formed of calcium phosphate, calcium carbonate, and fluoride.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">c) Pulp: The substances within the dentine that contains minute arteries, veins, nerves and soft tissue is called pulp.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Pulp is present in the tooth cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The nutrients and oxygen are supplied to the dentine through pulp.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">d) Cement: The dentine of root of the tooth is covered by a thin layer called cement.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Cement anchors the tooth in the jaw.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Dental disease: After food is eaten, a sticky layer is left over the teeth that consist of food remnants, saliva and bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This layer is called plaque.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">This plaque may be formed at the margin of the tooth and gum.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The plaque destroys the enamel of the tooth and creates craters in the dentine, which in turn damage the attachment of tooth with gum.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">This may lead to premature falling off of tooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Dental care: Brushing teeth every morning and night after eating food will prevent dental erosion, and keep them healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Digestion in mouth: In the buccal cavity food is broken down into small pieces with the help of tongue and teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">At the same time saliva is mixed with the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Saliva helps in deglutition of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Saliva contains an enzyme salivary amylase or ptyalin.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The salivary enzyme converts carbohydrate into maltose.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The food passes from the mouth into the stomach by the peristaltic movement in the oesophagus.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The contraction and relaxation of the muscular wall of the alimentary canal is called peristalsis.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Digestion in the stomach: After the food reaches the stomach, the gastric juice from the gastric glands in the stomach wall acts on the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The gastric juice has mainly three components.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Hydrochloric acid: Hydrochloric acid destroys the microbes, and converts the inactive pepsinogen into active pepsin.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">In addition, it creates an acidic environment for the action of pepsin.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Pepsin: This is an enzyme.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Pepsin breaks down and converts proteins into polypeptides.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Rennin: The enzyme rennin converts the milk protein casein into caseinogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Because of the contraction and relaxation of the stomach, the gastric juice mixes and reacts with the food to form a soft liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">This soft liquid is called chyme.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The chyme passes, a little at a time (in small quantities), from the stomach to the intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Digestion in small intestine: As soon as the food enters the first part of small intestine or duodenum, it is mixed with the bile and pancreatic juice which are brought by the common bile duct from the gall bladder and pancreas.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">At the same time, intestinal juice from intestinal glands in the intestinal wall mixes with the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Bile is alkaline juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Bile neutralises the acidic medium to form alkaline condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Bile breaks large fats into small droplets.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The pancreatic juice contains three enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Trypsin breaks the polypeptides into amino acids; lipase breaks fats into fatty acids and glycerol; and amylase breaks maltose into glucose.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The maltase, sucrase, and lactase present in the intestinal juice act on the remaining simple carbohydrate'maltose, sucrose and lactose'into glucose.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The second part of the small intestine or ileum contains numerous projections called villi.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The blood vessels in the villi absorb the glucose and amino acids; and the lymphatics absorb fatty acids and glycerol.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">After absorption of the digested food, the remaining undigested food is passed into the large intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Digestion in large intestine: No digestion takes place in the large intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Large intestine absorbs the water from the undigested food.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The waste, the remaining undigested food, is stored as stool in the rectum, and finally passed out through the anus.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">1) Dysentery: Dysentery is a very common disease in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">There are two types of dysentery.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Amoebic dysentery: This type of dysentery is caused by Entamoeba, a type of unicellular animal, when it enters the human intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">This has been detailed out in describing phyla protozoa in chapter eleven.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">b) Bacillary dysentery: This type of dysentery is caused when the intestine is attacked by Shigella.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The microbe attacks the lining of large intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The disease is manifested by frequent passing of stool mixed with mucus.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Often, stool mixed with blood is passed too.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">So this disease is also called blood dysentery.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">When one suffers from dysentery, without ignoring it, physician's advice should be taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">If hygienic practices are followed than the disease can be prevented.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">c) Constipation: Constipation is not exactly a disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">It may occur due to various reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The most common reason is not defecating when there is the urge to defecate.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Regular defecation, and including plenty of vegetables in the diet can prevent this condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">d) Gastritis: Untimely and irregular intake of food over a long time result in accumulation of excess acid in the stomach causing this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Burning sensation in the throat and abdomen, and abdominal pain are the manifestations of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">If not treated on time, it may lead to ulceration in stomach and intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">This is called gastric ulcer.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Developing habits regarding regular and timely food intake can help to prevent the condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Food and oxygen are essential for metabolism.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">At the same time, it is essential to eliminate the unwanted and harmful products of metabolism.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The system by which these substances are transported is called circulatory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Blood circulatory system: Blood circulatory system is composed of blood, heart, arteries, veins and capillary networks.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Blood is a fluid connective tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Its colour is red, salty to taste, opaque and alkaline in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The blood cells are mainly produced in the bone marrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">An adult human has about 5 to 6 litres of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Plasma: Plasma is the fluid portion of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The blood cells are suspended in plasma.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Plasma contains 9092 percent water.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Besides, plasma contains glucose, amino acids, fatty acids, glycerol, protein (e.g. albumin, fibrinogen), mineral salts, hormone, vitamins, urea, antibodies, oxygen, carbon dioxide, and other waste products.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Blood cell: In human blood there are three types of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">1) Red blood cell or erythrocyte: The red blood cells (RBCs) are minute bi- concave disc.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">They have no nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The colour of blood is red because of the presence of a coloured compound haemoglobin.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Every second, about 20 lakh red blood cells are produced in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The life span of one red cell is 4 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">2) White blood cell or leukocyte: They vary in form and size, and have nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">They are bigger in size than the erythrocytes, but are less in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Depending on the nucleus these are of various types'neutrophil, eosinophil, basophil, lymphocyte, monocyte, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">In healthy human body there are 6,00011,000 leukocytes per cubic millimetre of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The white blood cells can send out pseudopodia to engulf micro-organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">3) Platelet or thrombocyte: The smallest cells in the blood are the thrombocytes.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">They vary in shape'round, oval, spherical'and are found in bunches.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Thrombocytes do not have nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">They are also called platelets.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Blood maintains balance of water and temperature in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">The haemoglobin in red blood cells transport oxygen from lungs to different cells of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">The white blood cells by its phagocytosis kill the micro-organisms to keep the body healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">When any part of body is injured, platelets help in clot formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">This stops bleeding from the injured part.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Through plasma, substances like carbon dioxide, urea, digested food materials (e.g. glucose, amino acids, fatty acids, glycerol), hormone, and so on are transported to various parts of body.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Heart is a active pumping machine formed by cardiac muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">It is located in the chest cavity above the diaphragm, and between the two lungs a little to the left.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The function of heart is to receive the CO2 enriched blood from different parts of the body through veins, and to distribute the O2 enriched blood to the various parts of the body through arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">The whole heart is wrapped in a double layered membrane called pericardium.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">The muscular wall of the heart has three layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">From inside out these are'endocardium, myocardium and pericardium.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The heart has four complete chambers.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">The heart is divided into a right and left half by a partition.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Each half is again subdivided into an upper and a lower chamber called respectively the atrium and ventricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The atria are thin walled, while the ventricles are thick walled.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">In between right atrium and right ventricle is the right atrio-ventricular opening, which is guarded by the tricuspid valve.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Similarly, in between the left atrium and left ventricle is the left atrio-ventricular opening which is guarded by the bicuspid valve.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Two large veins'the superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava'open into the right atrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Four pulmonary veins open into the left atrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Passing out of the right ventricle is the pulmonary artery.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">And passing out of the left ventricle is the aorta.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Coronary artery supplies blood to the heart muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">The valves allow unidirectional flow of blood, and prevent back flow.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The tricuspid and bicuspid valves allow the blood to pass from the atria to the respective ventricles only.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">The pulmonary valve, a semi-lunar valve, allows the blood to pass from the right ventricle to the pulmonary artery and prevents back flow into right ventricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Similarly, the aortic valve, a semi- lunar valve, allows the blood to pass from the left ventricle to the aorta and prevents back flow into left ventricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Valves do not guard the openings of the veins that bring blood to the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">The alternate contraction and relaxation of the atria and ventricles of the heart propel the blood throughout the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The superior and inferior venae cavae bring CO2 rich blood from the body to the right atrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">The pulmonary veins bring O2 rich blood from lungs to the left atrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">When the atria contract they force the blood from the right atrium to the right ventricle, and from left atrium to left ventricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Then the ventricles contract.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">This closes the tricuspid valve in right ventricle on one hand, and forces the blood into the pulmonary artery that takes the blood to the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">At the same time, when the left ventricle contracts, it closes the bicuspid valve and forces the blood into the aorta that takes the blood to the whole body.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">As a result, the O2 rich blood from the left ventricle pass through aorta to different parts of the body, and the CO2 rich blood from right ventricle passes through pulmonary artery to the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">In this way, the heart together with its vessels carries on the circulation of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The pressure exerted by circulating blood in the arteries, as the blood flows from the heart to the arteries, is called blood pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Blood pressure is of two types.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">1) Systolic pressure: Contraction of the heart is called systole.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The pressure in the arteries during systole is called the systolic pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Under normal situation, the systolic pressure is 100150 millimetre of mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">2) Diastolic pressure: Relaxation of heart is called diastole.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">The pressure at the arteries during diastole is called the diastolic pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Under normal situation, the diastolic pressure is 6590 millimetre of mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Blood pressure can be measured with a blood pressure measuring instrument.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Blood vessel (artery, vein, capillary): The vessels that carry blood are called blood vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">In the body there are three kinds of blood vessels'artery, vein and capillary.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Artery: An artery is a vessel that carries blood from the heart to all parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">They usually carry oxygenated blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">They lie deeper in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">The walls of the arteries are thick, and do not have valve in the lumen wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Vein: The veins carry blood from different parts of the body to the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">They usually carry CO2 rich blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">The veins are less thick-walled, and have valves in the lumen wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Capillary network and capillary: When an artery enters an organ, it gradually breaks up into smaller branches that subdivide again and again until they form very small vessels called capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The capillaries are found around each cell of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">A single layer of cells lines the capillary.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">The veins originate from capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Blood Group: When blood is transfused, in most cases there is no reaction between the blood of receiver and donor; but some times there is severe reaction which may even be acutely fatal for the receiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">This happens because the blood of all people is not the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Research has shown that the red blood cells in human blood have two types of antigen and two types of antibody.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Based on these antigen and antibody, human blood is of four types.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">This typing is called the ABO blood grouping.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The blood of rhesus monkey contains an antigen called the Rhesus factor or Rh factor.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Some human beings have such rhesus antigen on their red blood cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Depending on the presence or absence of Rh antigen, human blood is grouped into Rh positive, and Rh negative.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Problem may arise if an Rh negative person is transfused with Rh positive blood, or when Rh negative female is married to an Rh positive male.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">The ABO blood group and the Rhesus factor of human beings are very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">In order to avoid any hazard related to when one donates or receives blood in times of emergency, one should know one's blood group.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Blood donation: Many critically ill persons, or persons injured in accidents may require blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">A person has about 56 litres of blood in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">A red blood cell survives for four months.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">About twenty thousand crore red blood cells are produced and destroyed each day.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">So, it causes no problem if a person donates blood every 4 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">It causes no harm either.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">On the other hand it can save a valuable life.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Some Common Diseases of the Circulatory System and their Prevention 1) Blood pressure: Under normal conditions, there is a defined blood pressure for a normal person of specific age.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">For example, for an adult person the normal systolic pressure is 120 and diastolic pressure is 80 mm of mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">If blood pressure is more or less than the normal for the age, it indicates disease condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">When the blood pressure is above normal, it is called high blood pressure; and when below normal, it is called low blood pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">In today's world, high blood pressure is a serious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">In high blood pressure, the small arteries and veins in the brain may rupture and may even lead to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">The condition is termed as cerebral haemorrhage.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">2) Heart attack: When the heart suddenly stops beating, it is called heart attack.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">The coronary arteries supply blood to the heart muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">If for some reason, the coronary artery cannot supply blood to a part of the heart muscle, that part of the heart muscle is damaged and it stops functioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">This leads to heart attack, which may even be fatal.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">3) Stroke: If blood supply is stopped through any artery in brain the condition is called stroke.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">This condition may even lead to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">4) Rheumatic fever: Frequent episodes of fever and inflammation of the heart are symptom and sign of this condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">In this disease, the heart valve is damaged.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Healthy lifestyle can prevent the occurrence of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">It is important to take the right medicine for the required period, in case the disease occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">5) Anaemia: Anaemia is a common disease among the females in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">This disease occurs when the haemoglobin content in blood decreases or when the red blood cells decrease in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Anaemia may occur when the number of red cells decrease in blood due to either decreased production or excess breakdown, or in states of malnutrition, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">On physician's advice the cause of anaemia should be determined and treated accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Intake of balanced diet is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Respiration and Respiratory System Energy is required for all metabolic processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Energy is stored in food.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">The process by which oxygen taken from environment is used to burn the cellular food (glucose) to form energy, carbon dioxide and water, is called respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">The organs that actively participate in respiration form the respiratory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Nose, nasopharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchus and lungs together form the respiratory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Nose is a hollow organ.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">The two openings at the anterior end are called nostrils.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">The internal cavity of nose is called nasal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">The nasal cavity in its anterior part is lined by small hairs, and in the posterior part it is lined by mucus membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">A thin wall divides the nasal cavity into two.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Air passes through the nasal passage during inspiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">During inspiration, dust and disease causing microbes in air are trapped by the hairs and mucus membrane of nasal cavity, and thus protects the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">The nasal cavity extends from the nostrils to the pharynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">The part of the pharynx posterior to the nasal cavity is nasopharynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Larynx is situated at the junction of pharynx with trachea.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Within the larynx is a pair of vocal cords.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">At the upper part of larynx is a tongue-like flap called glottis or uvula.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Sound is produced by the vibration of the vocal cords in the larynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">The uvula covers the larynx while swallowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">So, under normal conditions food does not enter the larynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">If by chance food passes into the larynx it causes suffocation followed by coughing, and the food is ejected.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Trachea is a hollow tube that extends from larynx to the point where it bifurcates.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">After the trachea enters the thoracic cavity it divides into two branches, the right and left bronchus, which enter the right and left lungs respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Bronchus divides again and again to form bronchioles.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">At the end of each bronchiole there is bubble- like structure called alveolus.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Alveolus has a rich supply of capillary network.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Lung is the main organ of respiratory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Virtually, lung is formed with bronchus, bronchiole, numerous alveolus and blood vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">The two lungs are located on either side of the thoracic cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">A double layered membrane called pleura covers each lung.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">There is a lubricating fluid between the two layers of pleura that prevent friction between the two layers during respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Oxygen enters the blood through the alveolus of lungs, and carbon dioxide is taken away from blood to the alveolus.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">The diaphragm separates the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">The contraction and relaxation of the diaphragm helps in respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">External respiration: Exchange of gases (oxygen and carbon dioxide) between alveolus and the capillaries around the alveolus in lung is called external respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">In the first phase of external respiration, oxygen rich air from the environment enters the lungs with the help of respiratory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Entering of air in the lungs is called inspiration or inhalation.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Contraction of the diaphragm and the intercostal muscles expand the thorax.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">This facilitates the entry of air into the alveoli of lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Blood capillaries surround each alveolus.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">The oxygen content in capillaries is low, while the carbon dioxide content is high.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">The oxygen content of alveolar air is high, while that of carbon dioxide is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">So, by the process of diffusion, oxygen enters the capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">In the second phase of external respiration, the diaphragm and thoracic muscles relax and the volume of thoracic cavity returns to its normal state.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">As a result, the air within alveoli, carbon dioxide and water vapour come out of the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">The release of air from the lung into the environment is called expiration or exhalation.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">b) Internal respiration: Internal respiration refers to all of the processes involved in getting oxygen from lungs to the tissues, release of energy and carbon dioxide during metabolism in cells, and the transport of carbon dioxide to the lungs is called internal respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Internal respiration has three phases.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Transport of oxygen from respiratory organ to cell: From the alveoli of lungs oxygen enters the capillaries around the alveoli where it binds loosely with haemoglobin to form oxyhaemoglobin.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">This oxygen rich blood flows throughout the body and reaches the capillaries around the body cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Here the oxygen is released from oxyhaemoglobin.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">The oxygen passes to the interstitial fluid and then into the tissues.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Metabolism within cell: In this phase, in presence of enzymes in the cells, the glucose is metabolised with oxygen to form energy, carbon dioxide and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">The energy released is stored in the form of ATP (adenosine triphosphate).</sent>
				<sent id ="436">This stored energy is used to carry out all metabolic functions of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">iii) Transport of carbon dioxide to respiratory organ: The carbon dioxide released in the process of metabolism in the cell passes out into the capillaries surrounding the cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">In the blood, the carbon dioxide is transported in the form of bicarbonate to the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Then in the lungs, the carbon dioxide is released from the bicarbonate and passed to the alveoli.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Common Diseases of Respiratory System and their Prevention Lung is one of the important organs of the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Different bacteria and viruses cause diseases of the lungs and other parts of the respiratory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Pneumonia: This is a bacterial disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">This disease causes collection of a type of fluid in the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">The symptoms and signs of the disease include cough, fever, chest pain and headache.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Seeking timely advice from physician, and with the right treatment, pneumonia can be cured.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Tuberculosis: The disease is caused by tubercular bacillus.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">This is also a bacterial disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Living in unhygienic environment, taking non-nutritious and inadequate food, and excessive work may cause the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Symptoms and signs of the disease include fever, cough, blood stained sputum, weight loss, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">On physician's advice, drugs and rest should be taken for the prescribed duration to be cured of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">The BCG vaccine should be given to all children to prevent childhood tuberculosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Disease spreads through cough of the diseased person.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Bronchitis: This is the inflammation of the lining membrane of respiratory tract.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">Smoking of cigarette may also cause this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Fever, cough and respiratory distress are the signs and symptoms of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">In addition, other diseases of the lungs include cancer, asthma, pleurisy, influenza, emphysema, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">Eating a balanced diet, giving up of smoking, living in a healthy environment, and seeking early advice of physician if affected with frequent fever or cough, can protect one from diseases of respiratory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">As a result of metabolism some unwanted substances are produced in the cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Protein types of food are digested to form amino acids.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Amino acids help in the growth and repair of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">After use, some amino acid is left over in excess.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">In the liver this excess amino acid is passed through various chemical reactions to produce urea, a nitrogenous waste product.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Urea remains in blood in dissolved state.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">To excrete the nitrogenous wastes, human body has of a pair of kidney, a pair of ureter, a urinary bladder, and a urethra.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">The two kidneys lie a little above the lower abdomen, in the rear of the abdominal cavity, one on either side of the spine.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">The kidneys are solid, brownish-red in colour resembling a bean.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">The kidneys of adult humans are about 12 centimetre long and 6 centimetre wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">On longitudinal section, the outer cortex and the inner medulla layers can be seen with naked eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">The region from where the ureter originates is the pelvis of the kidney.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">The renal artery supplies blood to the kidneys, and the renal vein takes away the nitrogenous waste free blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">The structural and functional unit of kidney is nephron.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">There are about 10 lakh nephrons in each kidney.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">Each nephron is formed of a cup- like structure called Bowman's capsule, glomerulus and renal tubule.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">The afferent arteriole arising from renal artery enters the Bowman's capsule and breaks up into capillaries to form glomerulus, and then reunite to form the efferent arteriole that leave the Bowman's capsule.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">From the ventral aspect of Bowman's capsule extends the renal tubule.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">This tube twists and turns, to form the convoluted tubule and loop of Henle's, until it drains into a collecting tubule.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">In the end, the collecting tubules open in the ureter.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">As the blood flows through the glomerulus, various substances like glucose, urea, uric acid, salt, water, and so on enter the Bowman's capsule.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">Subsequently, as these passes through the renal tubules, the required glucose, water, salt, and so on are reabsorbed, and the rest is passed out as urine.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">Urine is mainly composed of water, urea, uric acid, ammonia, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">One ureter arises from each kidney and enters the urinary bladder.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">In the end, urine is passed out of the body through the urethra.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">Diseases of the Kidney Some diseases in other parts of the body lead to renal diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">In case of uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, glucose and albumin (a type of protein) are passed in urine.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">In case of inflammation of the kidneys, red blood cells are passed in urine.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Sometimes, in these conditions the kidneys become non-functional.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">When the kidneys are non-functional, the nitrogenous waste accumulates in the body, and cause death.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">In case of kidney failure, the waste material may be removed from the blood artificially by a renal dialysis machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">This procedure is known as renal dialysis.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">Now-a-days, kidney from a healthy donor, or just expired person can be transplanted to replace the diseased one, and thus cure the disease and make the person healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">In the human body, the different organ systems work independently.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">But their activities are co-ordinated by the nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">The nervous system in human body is concerned with the reception of stimuli from environment, and co-ordination of different organ systems such that one can live harmoniously within the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">In reality, human beings are most superior because of the presence of a highly developed brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">The great development of human brain is noticed in the function of its nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Brain is the highly specialised part proximal to spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">The different parts of the brain are cerebrum, cerebellum and medulla.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">Cerebrum or forebrain: In human'a mammal'a large part of the forebrain extends backward and divides into two parts called the cerebral hemispheres.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">Situated in the upper part of the cranial cavity the surface of the cerebrum is twisted and folded.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Cerebrum is the centre of sensation and motor activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">The outer greyish part of cerebrum is called the grey matter, and the inner white part is called white matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">There are about 1.5 crore neurones in the grey matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">The white matter is formed of axons.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">Thalamus and hypothalamus: The parts below the cerebrum are thalamus and hypothalamus.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">These regions control anger, shyness, sleep, temperature, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">Midbrain: The part next to thalamus is midbrain.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">This organ is related with vision and hearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">Cerebellum or hindbrain: Cerebellum is located beneath the cerebrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Maintaining the body equilibrium is its main function.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">Cerebellum also co-ordinates the muscles of the body during locomotion, running, dancing, cycling, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">Medulla: The lowermost part of the brain is medulla.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">It connects the brain with the spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">The functions of medulla is the subconscious regulation of respiration, blood pressure, body temperature, secretion of digestive juice, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">Peripheral nervous system: The peripheral nervous system is formed of nerves arising from the brain and spinal cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">The functions of peripheral nervous system are to carry the stimuli from various distant parts of the body to the central nervous system, and to convey its responses to the distant parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">Autonomic nervous system: The different parts of central nervous system, through the nerves of autonomic nervous system, regulate the functions of lachrymal glands, salivary glands, heart, lungs, stomach, urinary bladder, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">Nerve cell: The basic component or unit of the nervous system is a neurone.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">There are several crores of neurones in the human brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">Each neurone of the brain is again connected with thousands of other neurones to form a complex nerve- network.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">Structure: Though the structure and nature of neurone is different from other body cells, it has the same basic cellular structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">Neurone has a clearly defined large nucleus surrounded by cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">Each neurone has a soma and two types of thread-like extensions.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">The thin branched extensions are the dendrites, and the single non-branching extension is the axon.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">In the periphery, the axons form the nerve system.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">A thick whitish membrane called myelin covers axon.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">The myelin is interrupted at places called nodes of Ranvier.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">Function: Neurones transmit impulses in one direction only.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">These impulses pass from soma through axon to the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord).</sent>
				<sent id ="529">The neurones receiving the incoming impulses are sensory neurones.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">Subsequently, a response to the impulse received is sent to the periphery through another set of outgoing neurone called motor neurone.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">A complete set of impulse followed by response is called reflex.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">Like the nervous system, the endocrine system helps to maintain co-ordination among the different organ systems of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">In some instances, the nervous system and endocrine system work together to maintain the body's homeostasis.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">Endocrine organs have no ducts, so they are also called ductless glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">These glands secrete juice or hormone that are transported to different parts of the body through blood or lymph.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">1) Thyroid gland: Extending on either side of respiratory tract lies a butterfly-like structure called thyroid.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">It consists of epithelial cells arranged to form small sacs.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Thyroid gland releases thyroxine hormone.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">This hormone influences the body growth and metabolic rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">2) Parathyroid gland: The thyroid gland has two wings, and on each wing a pair of parathyroid glands are located.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">Thus the number of parathyroid gland is four.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">The hormone released from parathyroid gland regulates calcium and phosphorus metabolism, and regulates their level in blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">3) Pituitary gland: The gland is situated in the forebrain.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">Its function is so extensive that it regulates the function of all other endocrine glands in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">So, this gland is called the king gland.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">4) Adrenal gland: The gland is situated just above each kidney.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">The external layer or cortex secretes the hormone cortisone that helps in protein metabolism.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">The central layer, medulla, secretes the hormone adrenaline.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">This hormone influences the nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">5) Pancreas: Pancreas contains the endocrine gland called islets of Langerhan.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">This gland releases the hormone insulin, which regulates the level of carbohydrates in blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">In deficiency of this hormone, the blood carbohydrate levels may rise and cause diabetes.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">6) Reproductive organ: Male reproductive organ or testes releases sex hormone called androgens.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">Among the androgens, the most important hormone is testosterone.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">This hormone helps in manifestation of sex organs, and influences the development of secondary sex characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">Female reproductive organ or ovary releases oestrogen and progesterone, which regulate associated growth of sex organs and development of uterus respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">1) Diabetes mellitus: This disease occurs due to deficiency of insulin.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">The disease can be controlled by treatment, regular exercise, and regulated food habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">In this disease, the blood glucose level increases and weight decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">2) Hypothyroidism: Inadequate secretion of hormone from thyroid gland causes this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">As a result the patient suffers from exhaustion, goitre, and diseases of nerves and muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">Benefit is derived by intake of adequate amount of thyroxine.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">By regular use of iodine fortified salt, it may be possible to prevent goitre.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">The numerous stimuli that we receive from the environment every day, is perceived and felt with the help of our sense organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">Subsequently, we respond appropriately to the perception and feeling received.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">As a result our body's balance is maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">Though there are numerous such sense organs in the body, but five sense organs are the major ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">For seeing is the organ of vision or eye, for hearing is the organ of hearing or ear, for smell is the organ of olfaction or nose, for taste is the tongue, and for touch it is the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">The five senses collectively form our sensory power.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Of the five sense organs, eye is for vision.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">With eyes we can see any object on which light falls.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">A pair of eye is situated in the orbital fossa in the front of the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">The eyeball is moved with the help of its six muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">The lachrymal glands secrete tears that always keep the eyes moist.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">The structure of the eye is quite similar to a camera.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">The different parts of the eye and their functions are as follows: 1) Eyelid: It covers the external part of the eyeball.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">Blinking of eyelids protect the eye from dust.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">2) Conjunctiva: This is a transparent thin membrane that covers the inner surface of the eyelids and outer surface of the eyeball.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">The conjunctiva turns red when rubbed, or when there is conjunctivitis.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">Eyeball: The eyeball is a rounded ball-like structure located in the orbital fossa.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">The eyeball is composed of three layers:</sent>
				<sent id ="582">a) Sclera: This is a white, tough, thin and fibrous outer layer of the eyeball.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">This maintains the shape of the eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Cornea: The anterior exposed transparent part of sclera is cornea.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">Light enters the eyes through the cornea.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">b) Choroid: This layer lies beneath the sclera.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">Choroid is rich in blood vessels, and is a layer of dense coloured substance or pigment.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">It decreases the reflection of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">Iris: The dense black circular layer behind the cornea is called iris.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">There is a small hole in the middle of iris called pupil.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">By the contraction and relaxation of the muscles in iris, the size of pupil can be altered.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">Light passes through the pupil to fall on the retina.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">Lens: A transparent bi-convex lens suspended by suspensary ligament is situated behind the pupil.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">By the contraction and relaxation of small ciliary muscles adjacent to the lens, the curvature and focal length of the lens can be altered to allow the formation of an image.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">c) Retina: This is the innermost layer of the eyeball.</sent>
				<sent id ="596">This is a light-sensitive layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">There are two types of light sensitive cells'rods and cones in the retina.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">The optic nerve carries impulse from this layer to the brain, and thus helps to form an image.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">Optic nerve: This is the second cranial nerve.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">At the back of the eyeball, it connects the retina with the brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">It conducts the light impulse to the brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">Chambers of the eyeball: Within the eyeball and in front and behind the lens are two chambers.</sent>
				<sent id ="603">One is called the aqueous or anterior chamber, and the other is called vitreous or posterior chamber.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">Both chambers are filled with fluid.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">Their functions are to bring the rays of light to focus upon the retina, supply nutrition and to maintain the shape of the eyeball.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">We see an object when the reflected light rays from the lightened object enter the eye through the pupil, to pass through the lens and fall on the retina.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">The incident rays of light diverge to be reflected on the retina.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">As a result an inverted small image is formed on the retina.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">When the light impulses are sent through optic nerve to the brain, we see the object in its normal state.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">With the help of ciliary muscles the curvature of lens can be altered and the focal length adjusted.</sent>
				<sent id ="611">This helps us to see both distant and near objects.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">This process is called accommodation. 1) Presbyopia: With increasing age, at about 50 years, this disease occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">This disease causes loss of elasticity of lens.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">So, objects at a specific distance can be seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">Use of spectacles can correct presbyopia.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">2) Hypermetropia: This condition occurs when the distance between the lens and retina decrease than normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">Use of spectacles can correct hypermetropia.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">3) Myopia: This disease occurs when the eyeball becomes abnormally elongated.</sent>
				<sent id ="619">In this case, the image is focused in front of the retina.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">Use of spectacles can correct myopia.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">4) Trachoma: Dirt and disease causing microbes cause the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="622">By keeping the eyes clean, this disease can be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">5) Glaucoma: This is a complicated disease of the eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="624">Eye specialist should be consulted for treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="625">6) Diseases like eye inflammation and night blindness is cured by balanced diet, vitamin A rich diet, and some minor treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="626">7) Cataract: Operative procedure is the treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="627">Ear is mainly the organ of hearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="628">It also acts as the major organ to maintain body equilibrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="629">Two ears are situated on either side of the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">Pinna: This is the external part of the ear, formed by muscles and cartilage.</sent>
				<sent id ="631">Its function is to pass the sound waves to the auditory canal.</sent>
				<sent id ="632">b) Auditory canal: The pinna is connected with a tube called auditory canal.</sent>
				<sent id ="633">Through this canal sound waves passes to strike the tympanic membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="634">c) Tympanic membrane: The auditory canal ends at a membrane called tympanic membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="635">The sound waves vibrate the tympanic membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="636">Middle ear: This is an air filled cavity in the skull.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">This part contains three small bones malleus, incus and stapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">The bones are attached to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">The sound waves are conducted by these bones to the internal ear.</sent>
				<sent id ="640">Middle ear is connected to the pharynx by eustachian tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="641">Pressure of excess sound waves pass out from the mouth through this tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="642">Inner ear: This part is also called membranous labyrinth.</sent>
				<sent id ="643">This is located in the bone named auditory capsule.</sent>
				<sent id ="644">The inner ear is divided into two main sacs Utriculus:</sent>
				<sent id ="645">At the upper end of the inner ear are three semi-circular canals, of which two are placed vertically and one horizontally.</sent>
				<sent id ="646">The semi-circular canals are filled with fluid.</sent>
				<sent id ="647">One of the canals is expanded into ampula.</sent>
				<sent id ="648">At this end the sensory hair cells are present.</sent>
				<sent id ="649">The function of utriculus is to maintain body equilibrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="650">b) Sacculus: This sac in the internal ear is elongated and coiled to form a snail shell- like tube called cochlea.</sent>
				<sent id ="651">The cochlea is filled with a fluid called endolymph.</sent>
				<sent id ="652">The sensory organ of hearing called organ of Corti is embedded in the inner lining of cochlea.</sent>
				<sent id ="653">The internal ear sends the sensory signals by the auditory nerve to the brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="654">Hearing Process The sound waves are collected by the pinna, transported by the auditory canal to the tympanic membrane to set up a sound wave vibration.</sent>
				<sent id ="655">As the sound vibrations are conducted by the three bones of middle ear, there is amplification of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="656">This state reaches the perilymph and endolymph where vibrations are set-up, and the sensory hair cells in organ of Corti are stimulated.</sent>
				<sent id ="657">We can hear when this sensory impulse is sent to the brain by the auditory nerve.</sent>
				<sent id ="658">Ear diseases my occur when there is perforation of eardrum due to accumulation of dirt in the ear, injury, poking of ear with stick or hard object.</sent>
				<sent id ="659">Collection of water in ear when infected may cause accumulation of pus leading to severe ear damage.</sent>
				<sent id ="660">Besides, some people may be congenitally deaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="661">For cure of these diseases, care of the ear should be taken as per physician's advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="662">In addition, if any outside object or insect enters the ear, it should be removed as per physician's advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="663">The nose is situated in the front part of the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="664">This is the organ of smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="665">A type of membrane lines the inner side of nose called olfactory membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="666">This membrane is full of numerous sensory olfactory cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="667">The olfactory cells communicate with the brain by the olfactory nerve.</sent>
				<sent id ="668">Smells from a smelly objects serves as olfactory stimuli.</sent>
				<sent id ="669">When such a stimulus comes in contact with the sensory olfactory cells, the cells are stimulated and transmit the impulse to brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="670">As a result we can smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="671">Disease and prevention: Common cold and diseases of brain may hamper our sense of smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="672">Use of snuff or other addictive substances interfere with the sense of smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="673">So, for any nasal problem one should consult physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="674">Tongue: The tongue is an elongated muscular organ in the buccal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="675">It is the organ of taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="676">There are numerous taste buds on the anterior part and edges of tongue.</sent>
				<sent id ="677">The taste buds of the anterior part perceive sweet taste, and those on the edges perceive salt and sour tastes.</sent>
				<sent id ="678">The central part of tongue is devoid of taste buds and cannot perceive taste sense.</sent>
				<sent id ="679">Besides these, the larger taste buds at the posterior part of tongue perceive bitter taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="680">Skin is the outer covering of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="681">It is also an organ of touch. 1) Outer layer or epidermis: This layer is made up of flattened epithelial cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="682">There is no blood capillary or nerve network in this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="683">There are hairs in epidermis.</sent>
				<sent id ="684">The cells wear off and are replaced by new cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="685">Prickly heat, vesicle, corn, and so on affect this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="686">2) Middle layer or dermis: This layer contains living cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="687">It has a rich supply of blood capillary and nerve network.</sent>
				<sent id ="688">There is plenty of pigment substance in this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="689">3) Internal layer or hypodermis: This is the innermost layer of skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="690">Muscle, artery, vein, nerve, along with different glands are scattered in this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="691">The major glands are sebaceous and sweat gland.</sent>
				<sent id ="692">The hair follicles are present here.</sent>
				<sent id ="693">Skin protects the body from external injury and invasion of disease causing microbes.</sent>
				<sent id ="694">It maintains uniformity of body temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="695">Sensations of touch, pain, cold, and so on can be felt by the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="696">The body receives ultra-violet rays from sunlight to produce vitamin D in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="697">Disease and prevention: In the absence of proper hygienic conditions different skin diseases often occur, such as scabies, itches, fungal infection, eczema.</sent>
				<sent id ="698">Besides, skin may be affected by sexually transmitted diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="699">Proper hygienic lifestyle is the best way to prevent skin diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="700">When necessary, physician's advice should be taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="701">Few other skin diseases are ringworm, dermatitis, leprosy, and so on that can be cured with treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="702">Animals reproduce to procreate in the urge for continuity of species.</sent>
				<sent id ="703">Like other mammals, the important aspect of human reproduction is copulation followed by fertilisation inside the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="704">Embryo develops within the mother's body, and thereafter gives birth to baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="705">1) Testes: At the outer and lower part of the abdomen is a pouch called scrotum that contains a pair of testes.</sent>
				<sent id ="706">The testis contains numerous tubules called seminiferous tubules.</sent>
				<sent id ="707">Sperms are produced in these tubules.</sent>
				<sent id ="708">From here the hormone testosterone is released.</sent>
				<sent id ="709">As a result male sexual characteristics are developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="710">2) Epididymis: The seminiferous tubules merge and form a larger twisted tube, the epididymis.</sent>
				<sent id ="711">Sperms are present in the epididymis.</sent>
				<sent id ="712">3) Vas deferens: The part following the epididymis is the vas deferens.</sent>
				<sent id ="713">This is the main sperm tube which pass into the urethra.</sent>
				<sent id ="714">4) Urethra: Urethra extends into the penis.</sent>
				<sent id ="715">Penis is formed of numerous blood vessels and connective tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="716">1) Ovary: In the female body, a pair of ovary is situated in the lower part of abdominal cavity behind the kidneys, one on each side.</sent>
				<sent id ="717">The ovary is attached to the uterus by a membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="718">The ovarian wall contains follicles of varying stages.</sent>
				<sent id ="719">Ova develops in the mature follicle.</sent>
				<sent id ="720">The ovary releases the female hormones'oestrogen and progesterone.</sent>
				<sent id ="721">2) Fallopian tube: Two fallopian tubes originate from uterus and extend to the ovaries to ultimately open in the peritoneal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="722">Fallopian tubes carry the ova from ovaries to the uterus.</sent>
				<sent id ="723">3) Uterus: This is an expanded hollow organ.</sent>
				<sent id ="724">The uterine wall is thick and muscular.</sent>
				<sent id ="725">Uterus is located between the urinary bladder and rectum.</sent>
				<sent id ="726">The development and growth of fertilised ova to embryo occurs in the uterus.</sent>
				<sent id ="727">4) Vagina: The tube extending from the uterus to vulva is the vagina.</sent>
				<sent id ="728">The wall of vagina is folded.</sent>
				<sent id ="729">5) Vulva: Several organs at the opening of vagina are collectively called vulva.</sent>
				<sent id ="730">The main organs are labia majora, labia minora, clitoris, vestibule, and vestibular glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="731">During copulation the male reproductive cells or sperms enter the uterus of female, where only one sperm fuses with the mature ova to complete fertilisation.</sent>
				<sent id ="732">As a result of fertilisation zygote is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="733">The embryo continues to grow in the mother's uterus.</sent>
				<sent id ="734">Subsequently, the mother gives birth to a baby. 1) Syphilis: In the presence of the microbe Treponema pallidum this disease occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="735">This disease is caused by sexual contact.</sent>
				<sent id ="736">Use of antibiotics cures the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="737">2) Gonorrhoea: This disease is caused by invasion of the microbe Neisseria gonorrhoeae.</sent>
				<sent id ="738">Use of antibiotics cures the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="739">3) AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome): This disease develops in human after infection with a retro virus named HIV.</sent>
				<sent id ="740">There is unknown treatment for the condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="741">Injection, receiving or donating blood, and indiscriminate sexual behaviour leads to the occurrence of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="742">Avoiding these situations prevent the occurrence of the disease.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
