<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.355</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">251</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3194</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1128</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t70">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In ancient times, people lived in the caves.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The hunting people lived in groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Then the farmers and the herdsmen began to live permanently.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">They were alert about their security in every step of their living.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">For these reasons they wanted safe shelter.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">At the beginning of civilization the idea of safe shelter became more clear and strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">As a result people gained mechanism at house building.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Later on, they learnt to make their house beautiful, dependable and comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">At present we, the posterity have built beautiful and luxurious houses to live in.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Due to these reasons, the houses are the basic requirements for people.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">So, we should know about the materials by which houses are built.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Different types of material are required for house building.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">People have to collect all these materials from different sources before starting to built houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Out of these house building materials, bamboo, wood, corrugated tin sheet, cement, bricks, sand etc. are main.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">But most of the people of our rural areas live in huts.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Almost all these houses are made of straw, stubbles, golpata, sugarcane leaves etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">And so these materials are also widely used for making houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">House building materials are classified into three categories on the basis of their sources of occurrence.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Agricultural or plant sources, such as bamboo, wood, jute sticks, stubbles, palm leaves, reeds, golpata, hemps, sugarcane leaves etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Mineral or earthen sources, such as various stones are collected from igneous, alluvial and converted rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Industrial sources, such as cement, bricks, steel sheet and rods, board, limestone etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Classification of houses: School, college, temple, mosque, community centre etc. are the social houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">These are used for social purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">People make houses for their living.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Considering the cost of building materials, the houses can be classified into two categories, such as Low cost house:</sent>
				<sent id ="26">In making this categories of houses, wood, bamboo, jute sticks, straw, stubbles, sugarcane leaves, golpata, hemps, reeds, stone, sand, cement, bricks, iron products, hard board etc. are usually used.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Costly materials are used to construct this type of houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The remarkable materials used for this purposes are bricks, cement, various steel products, wood, sand, concrete etc. and also various colouring agents, decorating materials and precious stones.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Bamboo: Bamboo and bamboo products are used to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Classification: There are 22 types including 9 species of bamboo are grown in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">For example, Talla or Cherai bamboo, Muli bamboo, Jaba bamboo, Ar bamboo, Baro bamboos etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Qualities: Bamboos grow everywhere in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">These are cheap in price and can be used directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">It is damaged by insects, termites and various fungi in moist weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Maintenance and preservatives: The traditional method of seasoning a matured bamboo is dipping it in water for 2-3 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Such type of seasoned bamboo can not be attacked by termites and it is not damaged easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Recently scientists have discovered a method to increase the longevity of bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">One type of preservative is prepared by mixing boron, chromium and copper which kill the fungi and insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The above components are mixed in water to prepare a solution of 100 litres.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The solution is taken in a thick polythene bag and kept in underground tank or in a plastered tank.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Then bamboo or bamboo strips or bamboo mats are immersed in the solution for 7-8 days to complete the preservation.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Now this bamboo is used in building works after drying.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">This type of preserved bamboo may be used upto 10-12 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Besides, the solution can be introduced into the bamboo by pump.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Generally trees are divided into two classes, such as- Hard timbered trees and Soft timbered trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Hard timbered trees are called deciduous by the botanists.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Sal, gazari, karai etc. are the hard timbered trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The leaves of these are usually wide and are shed off regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Soft timbered trees are called conifers.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The leaves of these trees are shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Mango, blackberry, rain trees etc. are the examples of soft wood trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Generally wood contains moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">For this reason, sawn planks or any wood products change their shape and size at the time of use.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">For this, wood is to be seasoned.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Normally, wood contains 19% moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">If the percentage of moisture is reduced by drying then it remains in proper condition at the time of use.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The traditional method of seasoning wood in our country is to immerse it in water for long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">But for this purpose the scientific process is more effective and in short time wood can be seasoned in large scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In this method moisture in wood is reduced by pushing air through wood adopting a special technique.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">In this way moisture can be reduced from 15 to 5%.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">This is the modern technology for seasoning wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The seasoning is done in such a way that there is no bending in the wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Production: Around a central portion, thin wooden planks are joined in such a way that twisting of nearby two planks lie at right angle to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In most of the cases, ply-wood is produced by joining odd number of wooden layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The outer side of ply- wood is called the back, central portion is called the core and others are called cross- wise layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">To produce ply-wood of soft wood usually same types of wood, is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">But in the production of hard ply-wood, the cores and cross-wise layers are pasted with powerful adhesive and then exerted in high temperature and pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The combined thickness of layers, quantity of moisture and defects in the panels determine whether it will bend or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">If excessive weight are exerted than the normal, it bends and become useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Ply-wood manufactured with water proof materials is not damaged easily in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Generally ply-wood is long lasting than normal wooden planks.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Ply-wood is used in construction work in the foundation and all in other phases.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">For making furniture, cabinet, partition, construction aid materials, roof, wall, floor, tank, boat, sign board etc, ply-wood is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Different grades of ply-wood should be used for different purposes by knowing its specifications.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Furniture made of ply-wood after being polished looks very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Cement is the most essential constituent in construction work.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Cement is used as an adhesive to the concrete materials made for construction.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">When this cement comes in contact with water or water vapour it becomes very hard mass.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Due to this quality, cement is an essential constituent in construction of roads, bridges and buildings.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Cement contains different chemical constituents.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The mentionable constituents of cement are: lime, silica, alumina and iron along with small quantities of magnesium oxide and sulphur trioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Different types of Portland cement are manufactured by mixing of tri-calcium silicate, di-calcium silicate, tri-calcium aluminate and tetra-calcium aluminoferrite.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">These four constituents are mixed with different proportions.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Out of these type-10, type-30,type- 40 and type-50 Portland cements are mostly used for various construction works.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Normal cement (type-10) is used for constructing roads, bridges, footpath etc.Type-20 cement is used for heavy concrete works in hot climate areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Type-30 cement is used to make it usable quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Type-40 cement gains strength slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">So heavy concrete work, such as the construction of dam requires this type of cement.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">This cement is also suitable for construction of industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Alumina, small quantities of lime and silica are the constituents of alumina cement and so its use is significant.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">This cement is very suitable for overnight construction of sewerage or water supply lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">This cement does not lose its strength of bondage by applying heat and due to this it is used in the construction of household stove or its foundation.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Besides these two main types of cement mentioned above, some other cements are also used in some specific construction works.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">White Portland cement is used in the white concrete, decorating concrete, partition wall etc. Forced air Portland cement is used in the construction in snow falling areas, where snow falls.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Water proof Portland cement is white and grey in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">This is used in the construction work to resist water.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Plastic cement is used in mortar, plaster and white wash work.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Masonry cement is used to make high quality mortar.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Oil mine cement is used in sealing the oil wells.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Expansive cement is used in the case where due to various reasons for construction of volume occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">In regulated cement the time of coagulation of this cement is controllable.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Concrete: Concrete is a hard stone made artificially by blending of some inert particles by mixing of cement with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Concrete is very important for construction works.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Constituents: Cement, sands, gravels, crushed stones, cold gangue, clay, slate etc. are used to make concrete.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The stability, strength and weight of concrete depends on the type of coagulated materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Pumice stone, gangue, hematite, parelite, barite, limonite, magnetite, iron and steel fillings etc. are also used to make concrete.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Preparation: The size, purity, strength and chemical stability of the constituents, which are used for the preparation of concrete are very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The planning of concrete depends on the nature of work.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Mixing the constituents after determining the right proportion for making a concrete is an important job.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The constituents are to be mixed in such a way that they are equally mixed and the paste must stick around the body of each of the constituents.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">If concrete is to be used for special purpose, then some other materials are to be added with cement and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Such as, if concrete is to be solidified quickly, little calcium chloride should be added with cement and water during mixing.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Curing is to be done in order to confirm that it has properly solidified.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">For this, to keep the concrete in humid condition for a few days, water should be poured on the structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In this moist condition, if the temperature can be maintained between 10- 25oC, then concrete can acquire desirable strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Block is used in all construction work.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Block may be hollow or solid.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">A wooden dice is made as per the size of the block required and then the mixture of concrete is solidified in the dice to make concrete.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Generally different rectangular solid block are made in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">In modern technology block can also be made by machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Dry mixture is inserted in block making machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Here block is formed due to vibration and high temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Then it is cured with steam.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Different varieties of solid and hollow blocks can be made by block making machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We can see different types of blocks in figure no.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">5.Some of these are solid and some of these are hollow.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Hollow blocks are used to make the construction light.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Solid blocks are used in heavy construction works.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Bull-nose blocks are used in round corner construction while bond-beam blocks are used for making the wall strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Thus the builders employ blocks of different shapes and sizes in order to make their construction attractive and beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">From the ancient period bricks are familiar as a construction material.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Manufacturing process of brick remains more or less the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">By using modern technology large bricks can be made in a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It should possess plastic properties in moist condition, so that blocks of different shapes may be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Expansibility of the clay holds the shape of bricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">At high temperature the soil particles must be fused and joined together.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The chemical composition of soil will be almost the same, but they will possess different physical properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">There are different steps for manufacturing bricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Out of these, the important ones are- collection and storage of raw materials, preparation of raw materials, making units of bricks, drying up bricks, setting fire, burning of bricks and cooling, collection of bricks from brick field and classified separation.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">After selection of raw materials i.e the selected clay are mixed well.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Then they are crushed well.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The crushing materials are then tempered.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">After that water is added to the tempered materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The quantity of water to be mixed will depend upon the method of forming units.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Clay prepared for hand made bricks is thus placed into dice and shaped into bricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The bricks are then dried in the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In a factory, giving shape and drying of bricks and also burning all these are done by machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The temperature in the drying and burning units are maintained from 38oC to 204oC.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The process of burning of bricks in brick fields are different.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Arranging a row of bricks, then a row of wood or coal are placed one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Then fire is set after arranging the kiln.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Fire burns for a few days.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Bricks may be made shining by spraying different mineral components at the beginning of drying.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">After burning well, bricks are taken out from kiln and separated into different grades.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">In our country bricks from brick field are graded by the number like 1, 2 etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The best quality of bricks are called number one and bricks of little lower quality are number two.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Number one type bricks are used for high grade constructions.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Bricks are the main materials in all construction works including roads, buildings, bridges etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The size of the standard bricks is the same all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The raw materials and manufacturing process of bricks and tiles are almost the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Some materials are taken out from the hand clay according to the design and it is made hollow.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Other steps of the manufacturing process are same, but bricks are solid and tiles are hollow.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Particular tiles are made for particular work.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">These are load bearing wall tiles, partition tiles, back up tiles, furring tiles, fire proof tiles, floor tiles, structural clay facing tiles and structural glazing tiles.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">In figure 5.5 we have seen the tiles of various designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Load bearing wall tiles are used for constructing weak wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Partition tiles are used for partition wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">For fire proof work, fire tiles are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">So, it is seen that particular tiles are made for a particular purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Iron is very familiar to mankind from old age.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Iron is very important in modern time also.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Among all the metallic elements iron is used in industries to a large extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Minerals of iron occur as different compounds in the earth crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Pure iron cannot be used in any work.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">So small proportion of carbon and other elements are mixed with iron to produce three different types of iron; such as cast iron wrought iron and steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Iron is a very important constituent for making vehicles, machines, tools, buildings, bridges etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The reserve of iron in the earth is limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">So it is being recycled everywhere to use it again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">There was only one steel mill in our country at Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Steel was manufactured here from cast iron imported from abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">People have been using gypsum in construction work for thousands of years.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">This gypsum is hydrated calcium chloride.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The chemical formula of gypsum is CaSO4, 2H2O.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Gypsum occurs almost in the purest form.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">It occurs in mines as a mixture with white clay, lime, stone, silica, iron compounds etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Its colour may be grey, brown or reddish brown.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Gypsum minerals are crushed to small particles in mills.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Then if it is heated in a special furnace to 175 oC, 75% of its moisture is removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">This is called hemihydrates plaster of Paris.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Many types of gypsum construction materials are made from this.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">In the second method gypsum is crushed into very fine powder in a special type of machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">This powder is called land plaster.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">It is then heated up to 165 oC in a special machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">As a result it becomes completely free from moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">This is called plaster of Paris.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Two different types of construction materials are made from gypsum.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">For example - plaster and board.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The names of its products and their uses are shown in tabular form.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Used in the construction of motor vehicles, tank or aeroplanes, plates for protecting warships and handles of cable propeller.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">In the construction of pressing machines, shells for destroying warships etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">In the construction of frames of motor vehicles, gear etc. Stone pressing machines, safety lockers, rail line, etc are made of manganese steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Used in the construction of fast moving machines and boring machines.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Used in manufacturing crockery and utensils.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">In the manufacture of scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Used in closing the holes of wall plaster and manufacturing dice.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Used in sanitation and high humid construction work.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Used in preparing intense and clear line and extremely smooth surfaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Used for first and second coating of plastered wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Used below concrete.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Above it any final plaster may be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Used for final coating on polished surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Used in drawing art.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Used for absorption of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Its paste is used to cover the hole of nail or to cover the joint of wall board.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Used to rectify little defects of concrete or plaster.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Used for partition wall, internal wall, and to give a cover to ceiling.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Used for partition to make the partition sound resistant, it is made double or solid.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">It is fitted with the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">To make steel column fire resistant.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Used in humid places like kitchen, bath room, laundry etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">It is used in outside places.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Glass is a transparent, non-crystalline, brittle solid substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">It is non-conductor of heat and electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Usually, glass is a compound of sodium calcium silicates.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">But in special cases its constituents may vary.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Glass making is an old industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The Egyptians knew the process of glass making long before the birth of Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The European, came to know about this industry from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Then it spread all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">By the application of modern technology glass industry has been improved a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">As a result everything, from drinking pot to bricks of glass are being manufactured.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The aim of using glass in construction work is to allow light inside the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">To control this light and its heat is also its main object.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">These types of glass are used in construction work for a special purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The types of glass and their uses are given in following table.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">In cases where visibility is not important.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">In situation where inside is not visible from outside in day time but everything outside is visible from inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">This glass is used in windows of offices and libraries for decreasing the intensely of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Most of the radiant energy of light is absorbed by this glass used in schools, hospitals and offices.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">It is very hard and is used for gymnasium window and enclosure of hockey field.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Used for room partition, office partition bath rooms and bath tubs.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">It is opaque, used in partition wall, front side of stores, show-room, laboratories and industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Used in vehicles and transport industries and also in construction.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Windows in houses, or small rooms, nursery hospitals, safety window of banks, police outposts and departmental stores.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Used as heat resistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">To increase the illumination inside the buildings functional glass is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">If focuses light towards rooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">In architectural application decorative blocks are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">It increases beauty when used in internal wall or dividing walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">It allows light without any dispersion.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Construction of this type of bricks is safe and dependable.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
