<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.428</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">192</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2451</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">815</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t73">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">There are different organisms throughout the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The natural environment is composed of these living and non-living objects.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Again, the living objects comprise both the plant and the animal kingdoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">This huge living kingdom influences human life in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">There are many similarities as well as differences between plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">After all, the bodies of well-organized living organisms are composed of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">They take food, respire, and excrete waste products from the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Both have birth and death.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Both respond to various stimuli like light, heat, cold, touch etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Growth of the body occurs in both.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Both increase in number by the process of reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">So, we must have clear idea regarding the characteristics of living organisms, prior to have knowledge about structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Each living organism has some general characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">These characteristics help in distinguishing living things from non-living ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The different aspects of life can be observed through their activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In order to live, plants and animals do many things and thus influence each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Though plants and animals show differences between their reciprocal activities, they have some fundamental similarities among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">In respiration, the potential energy stored within the organic food material in the living cells is transformed into kinetic energy by burning with help of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">This energy is utilized for various metabolic functions of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The basis of diverse activities of an organism is energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Food supplies this energy to the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">In food the energy is stored in the form of potential energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Hence, all organisms have to take food in order to maintain life.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Metabolic processes are continually going on in the body of living organism.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The waste products produced as a result of metabolism are removed from the body by excretion.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Sometimes, in plant's body, the waste products are stored in insoluble form.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">As a result of intake of food energy is stored in the body and body grows and develops.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Protoplasm plays the vital role in growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Animals can move voluntarily from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Plants cannot move freely, but can expand their branches and can also disseminate their seeds and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">All organisms respond to stimuli, such as cold, heat, touch, light etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">By the process of reproduction all organisms give birth to their offspring and help in continuity of generation.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Each organism passes through definite life cycle from birth till death.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">An organism takes birth, grows, reproduces and finally dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Just as a large building is made of numerous small bricks, the body of a full-grown multicellular organism is also made of numerous cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">In fact, each organism is made of either one or more minute cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">These cells are centres, where all the functions of life like respiration, nutrition, excretion, growth, reproduction etc. take place.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The energy needed for performing physiological functions is produced inside the cells by chemical reactions and so a cell may be called a tiny chemical factory.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The cell works not only to maintain life, but also to maintain the existence of the organism from generation to generation.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">So, the cell is the structural and functional unit of living organism.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">In fact, a mass of protoplasm enveloped by a living membrane is called cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Cell was discovered by Robert Hook in 1665 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">According to its location and function, cells are mainly of two types, viz- Somatic or body cell Sex cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Somatic cells constitute organs and organ systems, such as muscle cells, xylem cells etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Sex cells are produced in sex organs of organisms in which sexual reproduction occurs, such as, sperm, egg, pollen etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">In sex cell number of chromosome is half compared to that of the somatic cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">So sex cell is called a haploid cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Since the somatic cell has a chromosome number twice as that in a sex cell, it is called a diploid cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Different Parts and Their Functions in a Typical cell: Though very small in size and volume, a cell is quite complex in structure and functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">A typical plant cell consists mainly of two parts, cell wall and protoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The characteristics of different structures and the functions of a typical plant cell is discussed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Cell wall is the outermost covering of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">It is made of non-living cellulose and it is a unique feature of plant cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">There is no cell wall in animal cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The very thin elastic, living membrane that envelopes the cytoplasm is called the cell membrane or plasma membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">It controls the movement of substances inside and outside the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Protoplasm is the fundamental structural material of a cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">It contains about 75 to 95 percent of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Nucleus, mitochondria, plastid etc. are found either in floating or immersed condition in the protoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Protoplasm is made of organic materials like protein, carbohydrate, lipid etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Among the inorganic materials, minerals and water soluble gases are the main.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">All the functions of the cell occur in protoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">It is generally mobile and capable of reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The part of protoplasm surrounding the nucleus is called cytoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">It is mainly made of protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Mitochondria are the respiratory organelles of cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Mitochondria are the only source of energy required for metabolic functions of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It is therefore, called power house of cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">It plays the major role in oxygen transport and in conducting the respiratory function.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Mitochondria may be spherical, rod-shaped or thread-like.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They are scattered in the cytoplasm of plant and animal cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Mitochondria is covered by two envelopes.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The outer membrane is smooth while the inner one is folded in many forms towards the inside of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">These hanging folds are called cristae.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Mitochondria contains 73% protein, 25% lipid and 0.5% RNA.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The semi liquid granular substance found inside the mitochondria is called matrix.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">In the cytoplasm, the fluid-filled space surrounded by a single membrane, is called vacuole.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Water, organic acids, carbohydrate, mineral salts etc. are stored in the vacuoles.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In plant cell, vacuoles are large and occupy a major portion of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">In animal cell the vacuoles are very small in size but numerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It acts as a reservoir in cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The organelles, either coloured or non-coloured, found in plant cells are called plastids.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Plastid is a unique feature of plant cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Leaves, flowers and fruits have different colours due to the presence of plastid.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The plastid which contains green chlorophyll is called chloroplast.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Leaves are green for the presence of chloroplasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Chloroplast contains chlorophyll, carotene and xanthophyll.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Chlorophyll helps in photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Plastid containing pigments other than green (red, yellow) is called chromoplast.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">It contains large amount of carotene and xanthophyll.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Flowers and fruits are of different colours due to the presence of chromoplasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">And for this reason, insects and butterflies are attracted to the flowers and cause pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Colourless plastid is called leucoplast.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">It is found in the underground part of the plant (roots, underground stems).</sent>
				<sent id ="95">It stores food.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In the protoplasm the most dense, almost round cell organelle is called nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Nucleus controls all the metabolic functions of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Nucleus is separated from the cytoplasm by a thin living membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This living membrane is called nuclear membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The fluid composed of protein, present inside the nucleus is called nucleoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">One or more bright dense rounded structure in the nucleus is called nucleolus.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Nucleolus takes part in cell division.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Inside the nucleus are long thread-like structures called chromosomes.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The chromosome is made of numerous; very minute genes or hereditary units.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The chemical constituent of gene is DNA.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The different characteristics of an organism like body shape, volume, colour, sex etc. are transmitted to its offspring's through genes.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Therefore, chromosome is called the bearer and transmitter of heredity.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Nucleus controls all the physiological functions of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">A cell cannot survive without nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">So, it is called the centre of life of cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">There are 23 pairs of chromosomes in each cell of human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Among them 22 pairs control the structural organization and physiological functions of the body and the remaining one pair determines the sex of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Both the sex determining chromosomes in the diploid cells in females are X chromosomes (XX).</sent>
				<sent id ="114">But in males, one is X and the other is Y chromosome (XY).</sent>
				<sent id ="115">While forming eggs in females, each egg in female, receives one X chromosome along with other chromosomes.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">But in males, during the formation of sperms half the sperms receive X chromosome and the other half receive Y chromosome.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">If a sperm carrying X chromosome fertilizes the egg, then the fertilized egg will have XX chromosomes and the child will be female.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">On the other hand if a sperm carrying Y chromosome fertilizes the egg, the fertilized egg will have XY chromosomes and as a result the child will be male.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">In our country, mothers are often blamed due to ignorance and superstition, when a female child is born.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">But in giving birth to a female child, mothers have no role to play.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">There are many similarities between plant and animal cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">However, observation under microscope reveals some differences between them.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">At the beginning each organism is unicellular (fertilized egg).</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Apart from unicellular organisms (Bacteria, Amoeba etc.), all plants and animals divide, increase in number, from the beginning of the unicellular state and develop as a complex and multi- cellular organisms with different sizes and shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">This growth of body occurs through repeated cell divisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">In plant cell outside the plasma membrane there is a non-living cell wall made of cellulose.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Plant cell generally has plastids.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Since the vacuole is large in plant cell, the nucleus lies at one side of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">In plant cell, carbohydrate is stored as starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Centrosome is absent in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Animal Cell Animal cell has cell membrane, but cell wall is absent.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Plastids are absent in animal cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">In animal cell, vacuoles are very small and numerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">So nucleus lies at the centre of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">In animal cell, carbohydrate is stored as glycogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Centrosome is always present in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">As a result the cells are transformed for suitability of the various functions, according to which tissue, tissue system, organs, organ systems of so diverse type of bodies are developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">In multi-cellular organisms, each type of cell has definite function.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Since their functions are definite, there must be coordination between them.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">As a result of this coordination, an internal balance is maintained between tissue and tissue system and overall functions of an organism are performed property.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">For this reason an organism performs its functions precisely and are capable of food-intake, growth and reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The body of developed organism is composed of numerous cells of different shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">To perform physiological functions like movement, respiration, nutrition, defense etc. the cells of the same shape and nature cluster together.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">This aggregation of cells is called tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Sometimes, the cells of same type or of different shapes are aggregated together to form tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">In multi-cellular plants, according to the diversity of functions and their power division; the tissues are of two types.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Tissue composed of cells which have the power of cell division is called meristemtic tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The cells of the meristematic tissue are oval or rectangular and have large nuclei.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Meristematic tissue increases number of cells by continuous cell division.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">In the stellar region of plants a special meristematic tissue called cambium is present.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">It lies in a circle between xylem and phloem tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">It is composed of single layer of parenchyma tissue between xylem and phloem tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Due to the division of this cambium tissue, new phloem and xylem tissues are formed in the outer and inner part of the stem respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">In this way the stem of big trees increases on lateral side, that is, in diameter.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Such growth of plants is called secondary growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">As a result of secondary growth big trees like mango, black berry, jackfruit etc. grow in diameter.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Tissue incapable of cell division, produced from meristematic tissue, is called permanent tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Tissue composed of cells of similar shape and structure is called simple tissue for example parenchyma, collenchyma and sclerenchyma.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The cells of this tissue are living and round or oval or polyhedral in shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The cell wall is thin, uniform and made of cellulose.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Nucleus is large in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The amount of protoplasm is more and number of vacuoles is great.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">There are intercellular spaces between the cells of this tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The tender parts of root, leaves and stems of plants are made of this tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The cells of this tissue are slightly elongated and living.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The cell wall is unequally thickened.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The corners of the cell walls are much thickened due to accumulation of pectin.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Collenchyma is found in the leaf petioles, leaf veins and pedicel of flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The functions of this tissue is to prepare food and to give necessary firmness to the different organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The cells of this tissue are elongated and their ends are pointed.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">They have no protoplasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The cell wall is very thick and hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Sclerenchyma occurs around the vascular bundle and beneath the epidermis of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The main function of this tissue is to provide rigidity into different parts of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Different types of permanent tissue grouped together and performing the same function are called complex tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">They form the vascular tissue system in plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Complex tissue is of two types, such as-xylem and phloem.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Xylem: The complex tissue by which water and water soluble minerals are conducted in the plant body from the soil is called xylem.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Xylem and phloem constitue vascular bundle.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">This tissue is composed mainly of four different types of tissues-trachied, trachea, xylem parenchyma.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">and xylem fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Through this complex tissue the organic food materials produced in the leaves are transported to different parts of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Phloem is a living tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Phloem acts as a complementary to xylem in forming the vascular bundle.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The cells of this tissue, though of different shapes and structures, are engaged to perform definite functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The phloem is composed of sieve tubes, companion cells, phloem parenchyma and phloem fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">A number of tissues produced from the same source and engaged in the same function are called tissue system.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">As for example, xylem and phloem tissue constitute the vascular tissue system.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">In order to perform the same type of functions, a number of tissues or tissue systems aggregate together and constitute an organ, for example leaves, root, stem etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">When a number of organs combine together to perform the same type of function, it is called organ system.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">For example, the respiratory system in animals is formed to carry on respiration and is composed of trachea, lungs etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">A number of organs or organ systems constitute a developed or complex organism for instance, our human body, body of a mango tree etc.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
