<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-geo-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.851</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">337</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5846</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1287</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t84">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The deep blanket of gas surrounding the earth is known as Atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The scientists opine that the atmosphere is about 35 years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Its thickness is about 10,000 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">However, about 97 per cent of the total atmosphere remains confined within 30 kilometres upward from the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The atmosphere remains in contact with the earth's crust due to the gravitational attraction.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Again due to the pressure of the layers of the atmosphere, density of air is highest at the sea level and decreases with height.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Importance of the atmosphere : The atmosphere is of immense importance for the existence of the living organisms of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The atmosphere safeguards the lives of living beings against the effect of harmful rays of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Its gaseous elements like carbon dioxide rears the vegetation and oxygen safeguards the living creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The human activities on the surface of the earth helps to bring changes in the structure of the atmosphere, particularly large scale deforestation, industrial smoke, and burning of coal, mineral oil and the natural gas polluting the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">For the interest of the living beings of the earth, we should refrain ourselves from contaminating the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">So, we should have an idea about the structure of the atmosphere and how it works.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Structure of the atmosphere : Atmosphere is constituted by the mixture of several gases.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The composition of the atmosphere remains fairly constant roughly upto an altitude of 80 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Nitrogen and oxygen are the two important constituents of pure dry air.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">So far the volume is concerned, these two gases jointly constitute 98.73 per cent and the rest of 1.27 per cent being occupied by other gases.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Other gases include helium, krypton, zenon, hydrogen, methane, and nitrous oxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">But the water vapour and dust particles are also found in different scale in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is only 0.03 per cent.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">This meagre amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is much important for the atmospheric processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Because, this gas helps the short waves of the sun's rays to reach the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The short waves rays after coming in contact with the earth's surface transform themselves to long waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Carbon dioxide absorbs these long waves in the lower atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">As a result, the atmosphere becomes hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Atmospheric layers : The atmosphere can be divided vertically into four divisions according to the characteristics (temperature, pressure, density) of its different elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">These are Troposphere, Stratosphere, Mesosphere, and Thermosphere (Fig. 37).</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Troposphere : This is the lowest layer of the atmosphere and it remains in contact with the earth's crust.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">This layer is very much important for weather and climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The upper limit of the troposphere instead of terminating suddenly, its characteristics gradually fade away and mix up with the next stratosphere layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The last part of the atmosphere is known as Tropopause.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The thickness of the troposphere is 8 kilometres in the polar region and 16 to 19 kilometres in the equatorial region.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The density and the temperature decrease with the increase of altitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The decrease of temperature with increase of altitude is known as the normal lapse rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The velocity of the wind increases with the increases of altitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The lo wer atmosphere contains water vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The wind moves upward and downward.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">All sorts of weather and climatic processes are accomplished in this layer .</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Stratosphere : The next layer of the atmosphere is stratosphere which extends upto 50 kilometres (Fig. 37).</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Maximum amount of ozone gas is available in this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">This ozone layer absorbs maximum ultra violet rays of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">So, this earth has become suitable abode of the living creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Both density and pressure are comparatively less in this layer and the temperature also does not show a change in the lower atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">However, from the 20th kilometre upwards, the temperature records a gradual rise and continues upto 50 kilometres in the high stratosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">There is no water vapour in stratosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Stratopause exists above this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Mesosphere : The temperature decreases rapidly from the stratosphere upwards upto 80 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">This vast area is known as mesosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">But the temperature again increases after the 80th kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">This layer is known as mesopause.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Air pressure is very feeble in mesosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Thermosphere : Thermosphere extends upward from the mesopause.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The lower part of the thermosphere is known as ionosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Above the ionosphere, there are other two layers such as exosphere and magnetosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Weather and climate : The daily average condition of temperature, pressure, wind, humidity and precipitation for any place is the weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Generally, climate is the average condition of the weather for 30 to 40 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Controls of weather and climate : The elements of weather and climate are controlled by the following factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">These are latitude, altitude, distance from the sea, location of the mountains, relief of the land, wind movement, ocean currents, slope of the land, soil and the forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Latitude : This is one of the most important controls of climate as the incidence of sun's rays varies with the latitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The sun gives its rays vertically over the equator and as a result, the temperature is high in this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">On the other hand, the higher latitudes receive inclined or slanting rays and hence the temperature is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Generally, the atmospheric temperature decreases from the equator towards the poles.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Altitude : The atmospheric temperature decreases with the increases of altitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">There is a decrease of temperature of 6 Celsius for every 1000 metres of increase of altitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Though two places being situated on the same latitude, but their climate will differ due to the difference in altitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">As for example, Dinajpur and Shillong though located on the same latitude but the climate differs due to the variation in altitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The temperature in Shillong is much lesser than that of Dinajpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Distance from the ocean : The climate of a place becomes mild if it is located nearer to the sea or ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">As the climate of Cox's Bazar, Chittagong and Patuakhali is milder than that of Bogra being situated nearer to the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">No remarkable variation of temperature between winter and summer and between days and nights is found in the coastal regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">This type of climate is known as equable climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">But the regions away from the coastal area experiences extreme climate during winter and summer, because the landmass gets warmer as well as colder more quickly than that of the waterbodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">For this reason, the interior parts of the continent during summer become very hot and equally these become very cold during winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">This type of climate is known as the continental climate or extreme climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Wind movement : The wind movement plays an important role on the climate of a place.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">If any wind blows saturated with water vapour, then this may cause abundant rainfall there.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">During the rainy season, the monsoon full of water vapour brings heavy shower in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Again during the winter season, the continental air brings no rainfall in Bangladesh and the temperature decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Ocean currents : The air of the coastal area becomes either cold or warm due to the influence of cold or warm ocean currents.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">As for example, it can be mentioned that the eastern coast of the United States of America records an increase of temperature due to the influence of the Warm Gulf Stream.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Again, the cold Labrador Current keeps the eastern coast of North America cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Location of the mountains : Wind movement, when obstructed by the high mountains, can create influence on the climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The monsoon air being obstructed by the athwart situation of the Himalayan mountain in the north, brings heavy shower in Bangladesh, India and Nepal.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">On the other hand, during winter the cold airmass of Central Asia cannot cross the Himalayas and so the climate of the sub-continent never gets cold like Europe.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Slope of the land : The air and the land become heated where the sun's rays fall directly on the slopes of the high lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">But to the opposite side of the slope, the air remains cold due to the inclined or feeble sun's rays.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Soil : The structure of soil or its texture play a vital role in the preservation of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The sandy soil of the uncovered areas becomes hot as well as cold quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">But in comparison to sandy soil, the alluvial and the clayey soil take much time to become either warm or cold due to heat preservation capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Location of the forest : The vegetation by its evapo-transpiration activity helps the air to be saturated with water vapour, and this saturated air being condensed brings rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Besides, the intensity of storms, and cyclones are reduced being obstructed by the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The air of the dense forest remains comparatively cold as the sun rays cannot penetrate the dense to heat the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Variation in insolation : The atmosphere receives 99.97 per cent of its total energy from the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The energy thus received from the sun is transformed as heat energy or energy of motion in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The amount of energy received from the sun by the earth through radiation in the form of small waves is the insolation.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">During transmission, a considerable amount of this energy is absorbed, scattered and reflected by the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In the clear sky, about 80 per cent of this energy can reach the earth through the atmosphere and the rest of 20 per cent is lost in the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Even the total energy that the earth receives from the sun is not distributed equally throughout the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The amount of energy received by the equatorial region, in comparison to this, loses less amount of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">On the other hand, the condition is just the opposite in the polar regions, in other words, the polar regions lose more energy than what they receive.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The solar energy tries to bring equilibrium of this unequal distribution of insolation through the wind movement and the ocean currents.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The controlling factors of insolation : The amount of insolation that any portion of the earth's surface gets in a day will depend on two factors viz.,</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The intensity of insolation depends on the verticality or the inclination of the sum's rays, Duration of the day in comparison to night and the solar radiation.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">With the changing positions of the sun, the above two factors act seperately from the equatorial region to the poles in different latitudes and in different seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">In figure 38, it is observed that the intensity of the vertical rays is greater as it passes through a comparatively thinner layer of atmosphere and it concentrates in a smaller area.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The different latitudes lying between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn get vertical rays at noon.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">On the other hand, the oblique solar rays pass through a thicker layer and it covers a larger area.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Due to these two reasons, the intensity of solar rays during summer is more than that of the winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Again the intensity of morning and afternoon rays is less than that of the noon's rays.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The earth's crust gets sufficient time, if the day is long, to receive more solar energy and consequently both the earth's crust and the atmosphere become warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">On the other hand, if any place, the nights are longer, then that place remains cold as it receives less amount of insolation due to short duration of day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Air temperature : The warmth and the coldness situation of the atmosphere is the air temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The sun's rays or the solar energy is the major reason for such warmth or coldness of the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Temperature is transferred between the earth's crust and the atmosphere by three processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">These are radiation, conduction and convection.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Radiation : Electromagnetic waves can transfer energy (both temperature and light) into two objects without any medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The same process also occurs in case of solar energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Sun rays of a fixed wave length reaches the earth penetrating the atmosphere through this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Again by radiating heat through this process, the earth becomes cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Conduction : This is a process by which heat can be transferred through a close contact.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">In this way heat is transferred from one part of an object to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The crust of the earth becomes heated by the process of transference of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Convection : The heated particles transfer heat from hot areas to the cold areas through the process of convection.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This process is also found to occur in case of liquid and gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">In this case, the liquid or gas becomes lighter being heated and rises up and the surrounding cold liquid or gas occupies the vaccum space.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The temperature of the atmosphere is transferred this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">So, the sun's rays through radiation, after penetrating the atmosphere, reaches the earth's surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Through conduction, the earth's surface is heated and by convection, there is a exchange of temperature between water and the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Distribution of temperature : Due to the influence of latitude and altitude, the temperature of different places differ in different seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">There is a change of temperature of any locality due to diurnal and annual motion of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Besides, variation of temperature occurs due to wind movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">So, though the temperature differs in different places, yet we get an average distribution pattern of seasonal temperature throughout the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Isotherms are used to show the distribution of average temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The imazinary lines joining the points of equal temperature on a map is known as Isotherm.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The isotherms show the temperature of all points or the average for many days or several months of a year for any particular time.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The horizontal distribution of temperature of the earth for the months of January and July is shown by isotherms (Fig. 39).</sent>
				<sent id ="136">With the change of season, the highest temperature is also changed in the northern and southern hemispheres.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">For example, the lowest and the highest temperature is recorded in the month of January and July respectively in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">But during that time, completely, opposite condition prevails in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Due to the variation of temperature in different latitudes and the rotaion of the earth, several pressure zones have been formed at the lower layer of the atmosphere which are known as pressure belts .</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Equatorial Low Pressure Belt : This Equatorial Low Pressure Belt occupies an area lying on both sides of the equator extending from 0 to This region receives vertical sun's rays throughout the whole year.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The air pressure is low over this region as the air in comparison to its surrounding areas is hot and light.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Moreover, this region has more waterbodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">As a result, low pressure which is known as Equatorial Low Pressure Belt has been formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Tropical High Pressure Belt : More the equatorial hot, humid and light air goes up, more it becomes cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Thus warm air continuously rises up but it cannot come down in the equatorial zone.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">As a result, the upper air starts moving towards north and south.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In this way, the upper cold and heavy air starts coming down in the tropical region between 25 to Thus two heavy pressure belts are formed in the mid region between 25 to 35 North and South latitudes.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">These two pressure belts are known as the Tropical High Pressure Belts (One over the Tropical of Cancer and the other one over the Tropic of Capricorn).</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Subpolar Low Pressure Belt : The rotational force of the earth at two polar regions is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">As a result, the wind of these two regions moves towards the tropics.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">During that time, the pressure of the wind decreases at two arctic regions (between 60 to 70 latitudes) creating two low pressure belts.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">These two are known as Subpolar Low Pressure Belts.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Polar High Pressure Belt : The wind nearer to the two poles is very cold and heavy due to the location in the cold regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">So, two high pressure belts have been formed at two polar regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">These two are known as Polar High Pressure Belts.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The wind from these two high pressure belts moves towards the subpolar low pressure belts.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The value of pressure is shown as milibar (mb).</sent>
				<sent id ="158">At the sea level, this pressure of the air is about 6.7 kg. per 6.45 square centimetres.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The pressure of the wind decreases with the increase of altitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Sea level height is internationally accepted as zero height to measure the air pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The pressure of the wind is measured by an instrument known as Barometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The lines joining the places on a map having equal average pressure is known as Isobar.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The air moves from high pressure area towards low pressure area.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Due to difference in temperature and pressure the air moves from one part of the earth to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">This movement of the air is known as wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The cold and heavy air moves from the areas of high pressure to low pressure area.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">According to Ferrel's Law, the air moves towards right in the northern hemisphere and to wards left in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The wind system of the earth can be divided into four types.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">These are Planetary wind, Seasonal wind, Local wind, and Irregular wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Planetary wind : These winds being controlled by the pressure belts, blow towards the same direction throughout the whole year.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The planetary wind is of three types such as : the trade wind, the westerlies and the polar wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The planetary wind system has been shown in fig.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The trade wind : The sun's rays fall vertically over the equatorial region, so the air becomes hot and goes upwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Since the pressure is less upward, the rising air gets room for expansion and consequently the air becomes cool and dense.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The cool air could not come down directly due to warm air at the bottom.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">As a result, the air moves towards north and south directions through the upper atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Moving upto 30 latitudes some part of this air finds its way to come downward and blows towards the equatorial low pressure belt.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">This part of the air is known as the Trade Wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">According to Ferrel's Law, the trade wind blows from north-east in the northern hemisphere and south-east in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The trade wind of northern hemisphere is known as North-East Trade Wind and that of southern hemisphere as South-East Trade Wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The sky remains clear and the weather is hot and dry as this trade wind originates in the high pressure zones.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The big deserts of the world are situated nearer to this area.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">For example, the Sahara desert, the Lybian desert, the Arabian desert in the northern hemisphere and the Kalahari desert in the southern hemisphere can be mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The Westerlies : Some part of the air from 30 latitude blows towards the poles over the surface of the earth and after reaching 60 latitude faces the cold and dense air coming from the poles.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">So, comparatively the warm and light air from the tropical areas rises above the dense cold polar air and a part of it blows towards the polar low pressure belt.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">This is known as West Wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">In the northern hemisphere, it blows from south-west and in the southern hemisphere from north-west.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">As the area of the landmass is greater in the northern hemisphere, so locally, some changes occur in the air motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">However, in the southern hemisphere, the maximum area is covered by the waterbodies and hence the west wind can move uninterrupted.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The velocity of the westerlies reaches at the highest between 40 to 47 South latitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">This region is called Roaring Forties.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">This air movement is known as Brave West Winds.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Two more airmasses regularly move from north and south polar high belts towards the subpolar lows.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">These are known as north-east and south-east polar winds.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">In this, the circulation of planetary wind system (the trade, the westerlies and the polar) exists between the equator and the poles.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Temporary wind : The wind which is caused due to the difference of temperature of land and water occurring during at specific time of the day or during a particular season of the year is known as temporary wind such as : the monsoon, the land and the sea breezes.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The Monsoon : In Arabic Monsoon means season.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The most important characteristics of this wind is the changes in the wind direction with the seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The monsoon is also a regional air.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This mainly prevails in south and south-east Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Besides, that the monsoon is also observable in North Australia, part of Africa and in the United States of America.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">During summer a low pressure is formed due to excessive heat along the mid- latitudes or in the north-west of the Indian sub-continent.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Hot and moist air from the adjacent oceans blows towards the continent.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">According to Ferrel's Law, after crossing the equator this wind is transformed into the south-west monsoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">This wind being obstructed by the high mountains, causes heavy shower on the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">During winter the interior part of Asia remains very cold and so there creates a high pressure cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The cold air blows from the north-east high pressure area of the landmass towards the low pressure zone of the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">As this air originates in landmass, it is dry and it doesn't contain any water vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">This is why the Central and South Asian regions remain dry in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">However, when this blows over the Bay of Bengal it acquires great amount of water moisture and ultimately causes shower to the coast of Sri Lanka and Tamil Nadu.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">This air, however, when crosses the equator according to Ferrel's Law blows over North Australia as the north-east monsoon and acquires large amount of water moisture from the Indian Ocean causing heavy shower to northern Australia.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Land and Sea Breezes : In the coastal regions, the temperature of local landmass increases with the advancement of the day and a low pressure is established locally and comparatively the cool air from the adjacent sea blows towards the land (Fig. 42).</sent>
				<sent id ="213">This is known as sea breeze.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The velocity of this air reaches to its maximum in the afternoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The air blows from the high pressure zone formed over the ocean towards low pressure area over the landmass as the temperature in the afternoon increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">After the sun set, the landmass cools quickly in comparison to the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">During that time, the high pressure prevails over the landmass.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">So, the air moves from the high pressure area formed over the landmass towards the ocean (Fig. 42).</sent>
				<sent id ="219">This is known as the Land Breeze.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Local Wind : The wind which is created due to the difference in diversity of landscapes and in temperature is known as local wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">There are about several hundreds of such local winds such as the valley and the mountain breeze.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Valley and Mountain Breeze : A special type of wind movement is found to occur in the mountainous regions due to the relief of the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">During the day time, the sides of the mountains become more warmer in comparison to the bottom of the valley.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">As a result, the high pressure prevails at the bottom of the valley and low pressure on the sides of the mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The wind which is found to rise upwards along the slopes of the mountains during day time is known as valley wind (Fig. 43).</sent>
				<sent id ="226">During night time, the slopes of the mountains cools down due to radiation.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">At this time, the valley floor remains comparatively hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">So, the cool and heavy air comes down the slopes of the mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The wind which during night time moves along the slope of the mountains towards the valley floor is known as the mountain breeze (Fig. 43).</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Irregular Wind : In some places, the air pressure decreases and low pressure is formed due to high temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Again, high pressure is localised in some places due to much coldness.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The wind movements thus formed is known as Irregular Wind such as : cyclones and anti-cyclones.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Humidity is the amount of water vapour present in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The humidity of the air can be expressed in two ways such as, absolute humidity and relative humidity.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Absolute humidity refers to the amount of water vapour per unit volume of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">On the other hand, relative humidity represents the amount of water vapour actually present in the air (absolute humidity) compared with on the other hand, relative humidity is the ratio of the amount of water vapour actually present (absolute humidity) in the air to the amount of water vapour required to saturate the same amount of air at a given temperature and pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The humidity of the air mainly depends on the water vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The air receives the water vapour through evaporation of water from the open waterbodies (sea, rivers and small waterbodies) as well as from vegetation.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The air is said to be saturated when at a particular temperature, the air cannot absorb more water vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">If the air starts cooling it cannot hold the water vapour it had, then some of the water vapour is transformed into water particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">This is known as condensation temperature at which the water vapour is condensed is known as Dew Point.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">If the temperature is 0 Celsius or remains below freezing point, then the water vapour becomes hard and falls on the earth's surface as ice crystals or snow.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">But if the condensation temperature or dew point remains above the freezing temperature then the water vapour after condensation becomes dew, fog or rains.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Snow : In the cold regions, if the temperature falls below the freezing point then the water vapour of the air condenses like the carded cotton and falls on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">This is known as snow.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Dew : After radiating the temperature, the earth's crust gets cold at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The atmospheric stratum adjacent to the earth's crust also becomes cold coming in contact with the cold earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">So, the water vapour containing capacity of the air is also decreased and hence the extra amount of water vapour which the air cannot carry is transformed to water and rest on the earth as water drops.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">This is known as dew.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">In the cold regions when the temperature of the earth's crust goes below the freezing point then the dew is condensed to frost.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Fog : In the winter season due to close contact with earth crust, the temperature in the lower atmospheric strata is decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Consequently, centering the dust particles of the air, condensation starts in the lower strata of the atmosphere which is ultimately transformed to tiny water particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">These water particles remain in the air in a floating state.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">This is known as fog.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Rainfall : Saturated air going up becomes cool and condensed and transformed into cloud.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">A cloud contains innumerable water and ice particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">These water and ice particles coalesce together to form a bigger size of water particles which due to gravitational force fall on the earth's surface as rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The rainfall is of four types such as : convectional, orographic, cyclonic and frontal.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Convectional rain : In the low pressure region, the air being heated goes high into the atmosphere and expands.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">So, it easily cools down.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The rainfall which is caused due to condensation of the water vapour is known as Convectional rain (Fig. 44).</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The rising air, in the equatorial low pressure zone, contains plenty of water vapour and on condensation causes regular Convectional rain there.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Orographic rain : The moistureladen wind is forced to rise up the slope of the obstructed mountain, is cooled down and on condensation causes rain on the windward side of the mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">This type of rainfall is known as Orographic rain (Fig. 45).</sent>
				<sent id ="265">No rainfall is found to occur on the other side of the mountain as the air remains dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">This side is known as Leeward Slope.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">The south- west monsoon being obstructed by the hills of Meghalay gives abundant orographic rain in Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Cyclonic rain : The air from the centre of the cyclone rising upward becomes cool.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">At this moment, the excess water vapour of the air condenses and causes rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">This type of rainfall is called as Cyclonic rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Frontal rain : When the cold and warm airmasses meet together, then it coming in contact with cold air, the temperature of the warm air decreases and reaches the condensation level.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">This condensation is deepened and gives rain in the conflict area.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">This is known as Frontal rain (Fig. 46).</sent>
				<sent id ="274">This type of rain is found in the temperate regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Characteristics of the Monsoon : It has been discussed earlier that the monsoon is a seasonal wind in which there is a complete or almost complete reversal of wind direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Along with the change of direction of wind, there is also a change in the characteristics of the monsoon wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Due to the reversal nature of the wind direction, the winter remains dry and abundant rain comes in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The air is dry in winter as it originates in the landmass.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">During winter season, the monsoon wind starts blowing from the landmass and while crossing ocean it absorbs moisture and brings abundant rainfall on the landmass it comes across.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The winter monsoon causes rainfall in the north-east coast of Sri Lanka, in the coast of Tamil Nadu, in West Japan and in the east coast of the Philippines.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">The summer monsoon, as it blows from the ocean towards the landmass, carries sufficient moisture with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">As a result, heavy shower occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">It is due to the effect of the monsoon, that the variation of temperature is less between the winter and the summer in the low latitudes.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">However, the intensity of winter is well felt in the mid-latitudes.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">During this time, the cold continental airmass can reach the mid-latitudes.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The mid-latitudinal regions come under the influence of tropical airmass in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">So, hot weather prevails there (Fig. 47).</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Geographical locations of the Monsoon : Most of the monsoon regions are located in Asia, particularly in South and South-East Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The vastness of Asia, the situation of the Himalayas and the location of the warm water in south-eastern part create great difference in temperature between the landmass and the waterbodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">This difference of temperature is the cause for the formation of the monsoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The monsoon climate of South and South-East Asia covers India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal, Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia and the Philippines.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Besides, the monsoon climate is also found to prevail in China, Taiwan, Japan, Korea and the northern coast of Australia.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Monsoon climate of South Asia : Three seasons are found in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and India due to the influence of monsoon climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Among the three seasons, the rainy season is most important.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The pattern of monsoon wind system of winter and summer has been shown in fig.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">The air blows from the land to the ocean in winter and from the ocean to the land in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">South Asian countries experience more or less rainfall in all the seasons in different localities.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">But about 80 per cent of the total rainfall occurs in the rainy seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">The winter season in this region starts to prevail just after the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The durability and intensity of winter differs with the variation of the regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">As for example, the intensity of winter is moderate in central Bangladesh and is simply unbearable in northern India during the same period.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Temperature shows an increase from March and reaches to the maximum in May.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">A low pressure develops during this period over the area causing the maritime air to blow towards this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">By June this maritime air reaches the landmass with its fullest intensity and in this way the burst of the monsoon starts which brings the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">The Monsoon Climate of South-East and East Asia : The winter monsoon of South-East Asia is influenced by the Siberian airmass and so it is cold and dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">The wind first blows towards the east and then takes a turn towards the equatorial region.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">As this wind blows over the ocean, it causes abundant rain in the western coast of Japan, in the Philippines, and in South China.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Due to the formation of the low pressure in Central Asia during summer (May to September), the air from the adjacent oceans starts to blow towards East and South-East Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Consequently, it gives rain first in South-East Asia and later in East Asian countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Importance of the Monsoon : The impact of monsoon is very much important in the agricultural sector, particularly in South and East Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">The crop calendar of these regions is mostly controlled by the monsoon climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">For example, the agriculture of Bangladesh is hard hit by drought if monsoon rain does not start in time and if the rainfall is not in required quantity.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">The coverage of the air which surrounds the earth is known as atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Atmosphere is formed by the mixture of different gases.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">The main two constituent elements of fresh and dry air is nitrogen and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">The atmospheric layers are divided into four divisions such as : Troposphere, Stratosphere, Mesosphere and Thermosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Weather and climate : The weather is a daily average condition of atmospheric, temperature, pressure, rainfall, humidity, and the air movement for a certain place.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Again the climate is the average condition of weather for 30 to 40 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Solar energy : The amount of energy received by the earth through radiation in the form of small waves is the solar energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The solar energy is transformed through the process of radiation, conduction and convection.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Air movement : Due to difference in pressure and temperature, the air moves from one part of the earth to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">The movement of air is known as the wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The wind moves from high pressure to low pressure zone.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The wind system of the earth is divided into four types.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">These are Planetary wind, Seasonal wind, Local wind and Irregular wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Land and sea breeze : In the coastal areas with the advent of the day, the temperature of the air over the landmasses is increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">So, to neutralize the pressure, cold and dense air from the sea starts blowing over the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">This is known as sea breeze.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Just after the sun sets, the temperature over the landmass cools down quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">But at that time, the ocean remains comparatively warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">So, the air blows from the land towards the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">This is known as land breeze.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Rainfall : The moistureladen air goes high into the sky and cools down and is transformed into cloud.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">The cloud contains innumerable water and ice particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">These water and ice particles coalesce together to form a bigger size of water particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">So, by the gravitational attraction of the earth, these water particles fall on the earth as rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Rainfall can be divided into four types such as : Convectional, Orographic, Cyclonic and Frontal.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
