<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-geo-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.776</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">217</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3766</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">815</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t82">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Everyday the sun rises in the east and sets in the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This process led many people in the past to think that the sun is moving and the earth is fixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">But with the advancement of science, this has been proved that the sun itself is moving and the earth has also motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Later it has been revealed that the sun does not move around the earth, rather the earth moves around the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The earth not only moves around the sun, it also rotates on its own axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The motion of the earth is of two types : to rotate on its own axis, and to revolve around the sun in its own orbit.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The rotational motion of the earth is known as Diurnal motion and the revolutionary motion is called the annual motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Centering the sun, the earth moves from west to east on its axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">This motion of the earth is known as rotation.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The earth takes 23 hours 56 minutes and 4 seconds or nearly 24 hours to rotate once on its axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">This period of 24 hours is regarded as one day.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">This diurnal movement of the earth is the rotation.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">One such full rotation of the earth is known as solar day.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The earth takes a full day to complete rotation once on her axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The speed of rotation is different in different places.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The speed of rotation at the equator is highest.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Here the speed of rotation is more than 1,610 kilometres per hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">This speed decreases towards north and south of the equator.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The speed of the rotation is nearly zero at the poles.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Compared to the size of the earth, we are very much insignificant, so we do not feel the speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">No fixed or movable object is available in front of the earth in the space which can be taken as the basis to understand the rotational speed of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Keeping pace with the speed of the earth, the atmosphere also moves from west to east.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">So, we, do not feel the rotational speed of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The rotational speed of each of the places of the earth is fixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In the old days Ptolemy and his follower astronomers used to think that the earth was motionless.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">But subsequently astronomers like Copernicus, Kepler, Galileo and Newton gave their opinions in favour of the rotation of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Everyday the sun rises in the east and sets in the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">From this phenomenon we can infer that either the sun of the earth is moving.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">This motion is accomplished within one day or 24 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The sun is stationed about 15 crore kilometres away from the earth in the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Being located at such a long distance, it is not possible for the sun to revolve round the earth within 24 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Moreover the tremendous speed the sun requires to move round the earth will be even more than the speed of the light, which is simply impossible.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Because no object can move faster than light.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">So, it is not the sun but the earth which rotates on its own axis in 24 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The shape of the earth : The earth is inflated in the middle and is compressed towards the poles.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">If any pliable object or matter rotates around its axis, it acquires such a condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The present shape of the earth is the result of such rotational speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Scientist Newton had the opinion that due to the rotational motion, the earth acquired the present shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Due to rotation of the earth, changes also occur in ocean currents and wind system.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">According to Ferrel's Law, it is due to the rotation of the earth that the air and the ocean currents are deflected to the right in the northern hemisphere and to the left in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">It is observed that if a stone is thrown from a high place, it does not reach the gound vertically, rather it moves slightly towards the east.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">This proves that the earth rotates from west to east or the earth has rotational motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Primarily, tide occurs due to the attraction of the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The moon takes twenty seven days to complete one revolution around the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">So, it is expected that the high tide would occur once every 27 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">But practically we observe that the high tide occurs every day which proves the rotational movement of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">French scientist Foucault, with the help of a pendulum proved the diurnal motion of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">He attached a pin at the bottom of the pendulum and hang it on the top of St.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Pantheon church of Paris with a fixed motion, so that it would oscillate from north to south.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Due to oscillation, the pin at the bottom of the pendulum started marking on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Mr. Foucault observed that every time the marks have been deflected towards east.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">So, it can be proved that due to diurnal motion the earth rotates from west to east.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Occurance of day and night : One of the effects of the earth's rotation is the occurance of day and night.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">We know that the earth is round and it does not have any light of its own.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The earth becomes illuminated by the light of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Due to diurnal motion, that part of the earth which faces the sun becomes illuminated.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">It is day in the illuminated portion of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Sunlight does not reach the opposite part of the illuminated portion.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">So, it remains dark and it is night in the dark portion of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Due to rotation of the earth, alternately the illuminated portion becomes dark and the dark portion becomes illuminated and that is why the day and night are changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">When the dark portion is illuminated, it becomes day there.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Similarly the illuminated portion turns dark, it becomes night there.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Thus day and night have been occuring alternately.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">So, in some places it is 12 hours of day and 12 hours of night.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">If the shape of the earth would have been flat instead of being round, the rotation of the earth would create only day or only night.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">In other words, either only day or only night would exist simultaneously over the globe.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">On a specific date, in some parts of the earth it is day whereas in other parts it is night.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">That means when a portion of the earth remains dark the other part becomes illuminated.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The border of the lighted and the dark portion is called the shadow circle.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Due to rotation, when the dark portion, after crossing the shadow circle faces the light, it is known as morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The feeble light which precedes the morning is known as dawn and similarly the feeble light that precedes the evening is called twilight.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In any place, when the sun reaches the highest elevation of the sky it is known as midday or noon and the time recorded is 12 O clock.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">But in the opposite point of that place it is midnight.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Temperature differences : It is due to the spherical shape and also for rotation that a comparatively small portion of the earth, located in the tropical areas between 23.5 North latitude to 23.5 South latitude gets direct sunlight only for sometime of the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The region where the sun gives its rays perpendicularly gets more heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">On the other hand, the areas located north and south of the region mentioned above get slanting rays and so these areas get less heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Ocean currents, Tide and ebb and wind circulation : Diurnal motion of the earth creates rotational force which is responsible to change the direction of wind and ocean currents.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">So, as an effect of earth rotation, ocean current and the winds are deflected towards right in the northern hemisphere and towards left in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Determining the time : Due to rotation of the earth, it has become easier to calculate the time, since the period of one complete rotation of the earth can be divided into 24 parts and each of the parts can be calculated as an hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Again the hour can be sub-divided to sixty divisions and the period of each of the divisions can be taken as a minute.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Similarly, the minute can again be divided into sixty divisions taking each division as one second.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Influence on nature and living creatures : If due to rotation of the earth, any change occurs in the field of temperature and light then such change influences the production, growth and character of living organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Had there been no diurnal motion some of the regions would remain ever dark and no plant could grow, while some other regions due to continuous sunshine would have been converted into desert.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">According to Newton's Law of Gravitation, the planets move around the stars due to their attraction.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">A law is also applicable to the solar system.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">In solar system each of the planets moves round the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The earth being a planet of the solar system, also moves on an elliptical orbit round the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The earth having a full rotation on her axis for 24 hours, simultaneously moves around the sun on a set route i.e. orbit once in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">This movement of the earth is known as the annual motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The earth takes 365 days 6 hours to revolve around the sun in her orbit.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The period, the earth takes to complete the revolution is known as the solar year.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The circumference of the earth's orbit is slightly more than 93 crore 80 lakhs and 827 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The average speed of revolution is 1,06,260 kilometres per hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In other words, the earth moves around the sun at a speed of 30 kilometres per second.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Considering this speed, it requires 365 days 6 hours 48 minutes and 47 seconds to move round the sun for one time.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">But the solar year is calculated to be of 365 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">So, there remains a shortfall of about 24 hours or one day.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">To make up this deficit one extra day is added to the calendar in every fourth year.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">And that year is calculated as of 366 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The month of February is calculated to be of 29 days instead of 28 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">This year is regarded as Leap Year and the leap year is taken to be of 366 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Revolution of the earth is responsible to create fluctuation in the duration of day and night.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It is also responsible to bring changes in the march of seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">I. Fluctuation of day and night : The duration of the days and nights fluctuate in the same time in the different parts of the year due to the revolution of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">As a result, it is observed that in the same latitude, the length of day and night fluctuate in different periods of the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">In the process of revolutionary motion the earth, on 2lst June reaches in such a position that the sun's rays fall vertically on the northern most position of the earth, that means, on 23.5 North latitude or on the Tropic of Cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">At this time, the northern hemisphere remains inclined more towards the sun and the southern hemisphere remains at the furthest distance from the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">That is why the length of the day is greater and the temperature is higher in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">So, 21st June is the longest day and shortest night in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The sun reaches its northern most limit on 21st June and the date is known as Summer Solstice.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The sunshines vertically over the equator on 21st March and 23rd September.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">On these two dates, the sun remains in equal distance from the north and south poles.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">So, on these two dates, the duration of the day and night is equal (12 hours day and 12 hours night) over the entire world.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The day when the day and night are equal over the globe, is known as the Equinoxes.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">21st March is spring in northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">So, 21st March is called the Vernal Equinox, and 23rd September is Autumn northern hemisphere, so 23rd September is known as Autumnal Equinox.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The southern hemisphere shows maximum inclination towards the sun on 22nd December.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">So, on that date it is the longest day and the shortest night in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The sun reaches its southernmost position on this day and the date is known as the Winter Solstice.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The sun gives its rays vertically over 23.5 South latitude or Tropic of Capricorn.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The apparent motion of the stars : As we cannot feel the occurence of earth's rotation, similarly we cannot perceive the existence of earth's revolution.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">But with the changing locations of the stars from east to west at night sky, we can comprehend that the earth has an annual motion or the revolution.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">By looking at the stars in a clear sky one can understand the gradual movement of the stars from east to west.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The changing locations of the sun in the sky : The sun is seen to be located in different positions in different periods of the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We can observe that on 21st March and 23rd September, the sun rises at a point due east on the horizon and sets at a point due west on the horizon.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Again, we can see that on 21st June and 22nd December, the sun rises at north-eastern horizon and south-eastern horizon in the sky respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">From 21st June to 23rd December, the sun seems to have an apparent motion towards south.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">This is known as southerly movement of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Again from 22nd December to 21st June, it seems that the sun is apparently moving towards north and this movement of the sun is known as northerly movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The revolutionary motion of different planets : It has been observed through telescope that all the planets are revolving around the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The earth as a planet also has revolutionary speed or annual motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Direct observation : Recently the spaceman from spaceship has observed the revolution of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The Law of Gravitation : In comparison to the sun, the earth is very small.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The sun is 13 lakh times greater than the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">So, it is naturally thought that due to gravitation the earth moves round the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The whole year is being divided into 4 divisions on the basis of the variation of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Each of the divisions is known as a season.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">These are the Summer, the Autumn, the Winter and the Spring.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">It is to be noted here that when summer prevails in the northern hemisphere, winter sets in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Again, when there is winter in the northern hemisphere, it is summer in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Similarly, when it is spring in the northern hemisphere, it is autumn in the southern hemisphere and it is spring in the southern hemisphere when it is autumn in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Reasons for change of seasons : Due to the difference of temperature, the clange of seasons does occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">T The earth is round.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">So, some places get direct sunshine, whereas in other places it falls at a slanting position.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">As a result, it creates difference in temperature which in turn causes to change the season.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The orbit of the earth is elliptical.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">So the distance of the earth from the sun fluctuates.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">As a result, it creates difference in temperature which ultimately brings changes in season.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The axis of the earth makes a fixed inclination of about 66.5 with the plane of the ecliptic.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">As a result, once in a year the north pole or the south pole shows inclination towards the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Temperature increases in the hemisphere when it remains inclined towards the sun and in opposite case the temperature decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">As a result, the season changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Perihelion and Aphelion : The orbit of the earth is an ellipse.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Its length is 93,80,51,827 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The sun is located in the centre or in the focus of the ellipse.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Perihelion : In the process of revolution around the sun, the earth on 1st to 3rd January reaches in such a position that the distance between the sun and the earth becomes the lowest.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It is about 14 crore 65 lakh 83 thousand 5 hundred kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">This position of the earth on that date is known as Perihelion.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">In Perihelion position the axis of the earth lie aslant outside the orbit.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Aphelion : As the orbit of the earth is ellipse, the distance between the sun and the earth does not remain fixed for all the time of the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Sometimes the distance increases and other times it decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In the first half of July, particularly on 4th July, the distance between the sun and the earth becomes the highest being 15 crore 14 lakh 20 thousand and 500 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">This position of the earth is known as Aphelion.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The process of changing of season : Normally, we know that there are four seasons in the earth viz., the summer, the autumn, the winter and the spring.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Now we will try to understand how the changes of season do occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The explanations for the change of seasons may be obtained from four situations of the earth during revolution around the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Summer in the Northern Hemisphere and Winter in the Southern Hemisphere : We know that the north pole comes nearer to the sun once in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">During revolution on her orbit, the north pole of the earth after 21st March, starts showing inclination towards the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Consequently, a large portion of the northern hemisphere is being illuminated by the rays of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The area of illumination gradually increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">As a result, the days become longer and the nights shorter in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">As the days become longer the sun gives its rays for a longer time in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The earth gets more time to receive heat and the heated earth in turn makes the surrounding air to be hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Nights are short and the amount of radiation from the soil is less in comparison to the amount of heat that is stored during day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Thus hot weather prevails in the northern hemisphere and so it is summer there.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">At this time opposite condition prevails in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Since the southern hemisphere remains far from the sun and it gets sunshine for a shorter time.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">So the nights are long and the days are short.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The earth radiates the heat which she has stored at day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">As a result, the earth becomes cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Cold weather prevails in the southern hemisphere and it is winter there.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Autumn in the Northern Hemisphere and Spring in the Southern Hemisphere : After 21st June, the length of the day starts decreasing and the length of night gets increasing in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">But until 23rd September in comparison to night, the length of the day still remains shorter.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The north pole which is inclined towards the sun starts moving away from the sun and from a distant position the southern hemisphere gradually inclined towards the sun i.e. the south polar region comes nearer to the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Consequently temperature gradually decreases in the northern hemisphere and it increases in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">This condition is known as Autumn in the northern hemisphere and Spring in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">On 23rd September the day and night are equal throughout the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Winter in the Northern Hemisphere and Summer in the Southern Hemisphere : We know that after 23rd September, the southern hemisphere starts showing inclination towards the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">One can perceive that everyday the sun moves southward.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">This is known as southwardly movement of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">In comparison to night, the days become longer in the southern hemisphere as the south pole shows inclination towards the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">As the sun's rays fall directly on the Tropic of Capricorn, the southern hemisphere gets sun rays for a longer period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Consequently, the temperature increases in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">On 22nd December, the south pole approaches to the nearest position towards the sun and it is the longest day in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">So, one and half months preceding 22nd December and the same period following that date the temperature remains high in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Naturally, during this period, the temperature remains very low in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">So, one and half months preceding 22nd December, it is summer in the southern hemisphere and it is winter in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Spring in the Northern Hemisphere and Autumn in the Southern Hemisphere : The sun starts moving towards the north after 22nd December.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The length of the day starts decreasing in the southern hemisphere and increasing in the northern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Consequently, the temperature increases gradually in the northern hemisphere and decreases in the southern hemisphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Again day and night become equal in duration on 21st March.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">On this date the sun,s position is vertical on the equator.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">This is known as autumnal equinox.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">This is spring in the northern hemisphere and autumn in the southern hemisphere .</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Diurnal motion : The earth rotates on its own axis once in 24 hours or in a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">This motion of the earth is called the diurnal motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The diurnal motion causes the occurance of days and nights and the variation of temperature, whereas, this motion controls the ocean currents, tide and ebb and the wind movements.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Annual motion : The earth revolves round the sun on a fixed orbit once in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">This motion of the earth is called the annual motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The fluctuation in the duration of the days and nights and the changes of seasons do occur due to this annual motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Seasons : The whole year has been divided into four divisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Each of such division is known as a season.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">There are four seasons viz., summer, Autumn, winter and spring.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Change of seasons : The change of seasons occurs mainly due to the variation of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Difference in temperature of the sun, the round shape of the earth, the rotation of the earth etc. are the causes of the change of season.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Perihelion and Aphelion : The earth, on 1st to 3rd January, is positioned at a shortest distance from the sun and this of the earth is known as Perihelion.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Again, the earth on 1st to 4th July, remains at the furthest distance from the sun and such position of the earth is known as Aphelion.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
