<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-geo-10</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.587</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">205</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3307</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1117</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t77">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Introduction : Korean Peninsula is a country of East Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">At the beginning of the 20th century, Japan had captured this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">As a result, this country became a colony of Japan.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">After the world war is over, Korea became independent in 1945 and this country was divided into two parts in 1948 along 30 North latitude and the zigzag cease-fire line between South Korea and North Korea was demarcated as border line.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The island named Tetha-Dongo and Tek Shima which are situated far from the main land are also included in this state.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">North Korea is situated in the north of this country, Japan Sea in the east, Korea Strait in the south and the Yellow Sea in the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">193 kilometres wide Korea Strait connecting Japan Sea and Yellow Sea is situated between Japan and South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Area and Population : Total area of South Korea is about 1,00,032 square kilometres occupying about 45 per cent of the total land of Korean Peninsula.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">About 4 crore and 89 lakh people live in this country and the density of population is about 489 persons per square kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The people are of Mongoloid group.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Physiography : The country is divided into three regions viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">: The Mountainous Region, The Plains Region, and The East Coastal Region.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The country covers about two-thirds of the mountainous region.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Taebaek Hill Tracks of east coast extends from north to south.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Gaema plateau is joined with Taebaek mountain in the south.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Many places of hilly region are eroded by the waves of Japan Sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Though the eastern slope of the mountain nearer to Japan Sea is steep but the western and the southern slopes are to some extent moderate which gives birth to the plain land and also created innumerable islands and canyons.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The land slopes mainly towards west and south which is evident from the normal flow of the rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The plain lands of coastal areas between Japan Sea and Taebaek mountain are very narrow and gradully widens towards south .</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The Mountainous Region : The mauntainous region is consisted of some scattered peaks, plateaus and the valleys.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The soil of this region is formed of hard granite rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The height of the main peaks of the mountainous region is more than 2,400 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The Gaema plateau joins the Taebaek mountain in the south.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The broad, low and long plain seperating the plateau in the south-west has connected the south plains with west plains as a link road.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The Plains Region : This area is formed of sand and rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The coastal beach formed of sand is used specially for bathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Most of the places of this region have been eroded by heavy rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The East Coastal Region : The east coastal region is situated between east coastal line and Taebaek mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The east coastal plain land is very narrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">This region is not very wide and gradully widens towards the south.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Rivers : There are many rivers in South Korea in comparison to the plain land.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">These rivers had great impact on the life style of the inhabitants and on the national industrial development of South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The main rivers of South Korea are Nakdong (521.5 kilometres) and Han (481.7 kilometres).</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The Han river flowing through the modern Seoul city helps to centralise the population and to increase the density of population in the central region.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The rivers flowing into the Yellow Sea are comparatively longer and have widened gradually nearer to the outlet.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The rivers remain navigable for a long distance, particularly during the high tide reaching to the height of about 10 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The rivers falling into the Japan Sea are narrow and short, and the strong current helps to generate hydro-electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">As the three sides of this country are surrounded by sea, the huge quantity of water has brought diversity in the life of Korean people and it has impact on the development on the navigation and shipbuilding industries of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Climate : South Korea being located in the temperate zone enjoys fully four seasons viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Summer, Autumn, Winter and Spring.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The warm and moist climate is felt during the Monsoon summer season from June to September (Fig. 70).</sent>
				<sent id ="42">This season is very comfortable as most of the times, the sky remains clear and the temperature remains moderate.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The climate remains stagnant in Autumn (October).</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The winter (November to March) becomes cold and dry under the influence of Siberian high pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The ice flows from north-east to south-west with cold wave blowing along the side of the East coast (Fig. 71).</sent>
				<sent id ="46">As a result, snowfall occours in Northern part and severe cold is felt all over the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Certainly, the South-east coast of the country remains warm due to the influence of the warm west current.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Spring (April-May) remains dry and warm due to the influence of the high pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The seasons of low temperature and small rainfall is found to occur due to high temperature and heavy rainfall experienced after the warm and cold weather felt sequentially in four seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Due to the evaporation of moisture from the soil, a slight changed continental polar airmass while crossing the Gobe desert of China-Mongolia border, carry fine yellow coloured loess soil from the loess plateau of China and after crossing the Yellow Sea reaches South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Due to the violent flow of this yellow desert storm, dust particles create abnormal situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">During the winter months, there is predominance of dust cloud in Korea for which visibility becomes poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The tropical cyclone named as Typhoons occuring during summer season from July-August causes heavy loss of crops, households, lives and property.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">These storms are seen frequently at the fag end of this summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Heavy rainfall occurs during this time and the wind blows 242.35 kilometres per hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Typhoons gradually moves away from the continent due to the influence of Siberian high pressure in the month of October (Fig. 72).</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The variation of seasonal temperature is felt though the temperature of South Korea remains between 10 to 16 Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The average temperature of the country lies between 23 and 26 Celsius in August and the temperature comes down to minus 6 and 7 Celsius in the coldest month of Januray.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Snowfall and rainfall is recorded between 1,000 to 1,800 millimetres in South Korea (100 to 180 centimetres).</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The central region of the country experiences rainfall between 1,100 to 1,400 millimetres (100 to 140 centimetres) which accounts for about 50 to 60 per cent of the annual rainfall of summer months.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Natural Vegetation : The predominane of natural vegetation is found in the forest of the mountainous regions of South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The forest has a mixture of both coniferous and deciduous trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The southern plain regions are mostly covered by rainfed forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In summer the trees are decorated with deep green, thick and large leaves but the leaves are dropped off during winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Red pines of straight and hard trunk are also besides, Elm, Maple, Linven, Birch, and Ash trees, found in these forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Agriculture : The slope of the most parts of the mountainous region is steep, covered with thin-soil layer with infertile soil and forest cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">It is difficult to grow rice or even vegetables under this condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">19.8 per cent of total land is under agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Extensive farming is practised in 8 per cent of the coastal plains and in the valleys.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">7.2 per cent people are farmers.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The farmers remain busy during summer because of heavy Moonsoon rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Cultivation is practised by means of irrigation during the dry season, particularly in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The rice growing land is much more wider in the southern and western parts of the country and Vegetables are cultivated by the side of the hilly areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Vegetables are grown than rice more in east coastal plain land.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Rice is used to cultivate in half of the total agricultural land.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Fishing is the second important occupation.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Rainfall is least in the month of April but this little rainfall is vital for rice cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">With the first shower, the lands are ploughed and seeds are sown.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The rice plants grow fast with the rains.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The rice growing lands are much more in the southern and western parts of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Rice is the main staple food.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Rice is grown in more than half of the cultivable lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The production of rice remains stable due to the invent of new varities of rice and its expansion of new innovative means every year of cultivating rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Millet, barley, wheat, soyabean, peas or red beans are also grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Rice is reaped in October and then the land is prepared for growing barley and wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">These crops are harvested in June and July and rice plants are planted in the rainy days.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The total yield of millet, barley, and wheat together is higher than that of rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Mulberry, cotton, tobacco, flax and jinseng are produced specially as cash crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Soyabean farming is abundant in South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Recently, soyabean cultivation is decreasing as import of syabean is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The silk industry exits as an ancient glorious industry of South Korea but now it is flourishing.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The demand of silk has increased in the internal market due to the increase of national income since 1970.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">As a result, silk processing industry is developing in the south-east area of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Cotton is gown abundantly in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Jinseng is an important agricultural product.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The juice obtained from its roots prevents many diseases creating a high demand for it in the country and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Jinseng and tobacco cultivation is encouraged by the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Stock rearing has developed in South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The cattle of South Korea is of high quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">A large number of cattle are exported every year to Japan.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Natural Regions : South Korea is divided into five natural regions on the basis of physical features and characteristics of products.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Mountainous Region : The density of population is very low in this area though 70 per cent of the total land is mountainous.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The region having rugged surface and difficult access, is inhabited sparsely by the native aboriginals.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The households in many cases have developed keeping some distance in between due to the scarcity of plain land for the growth of settlement.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Though the inhabitants of this region have many problems, they do not only supply the forest and underground resources but still they do supply the oxygen and also play an important role in keeping the environments in balance in controlling the flood and drought.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Besides, the charming natural scenery of mountainous region is notable as tourism wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">East Coastal Strip Region : This narrow coastal region is cut off from the other areas of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The inhabitants of the villages are primarily inclined to fishing pursuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">They catch fish off the coast in small boats using traditional methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">They grow rice and millets in the narrow strip of agricultural rings located into hinterland of the coastal area.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Tides have little influnce in this coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">South-East Region : This region is formed in the piedmont regions of the mountainous slopes surrounded with Naknong basin.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Silk culture has expanded considerably in this part of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">This area has an excellent transport and communication system.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The port of Busan is located in this area.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">South-West Region : This part of the country formed by the agricultural basins is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Two crops are grown annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Rice is harvested in October and wheat or barley before the start of rain in June.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Silk culture is also gaining importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">North-West Region : The Gyeonggi province of Metropolitan area is closely connected with the capital of Seoul.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">This is a very small area of South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">A single crop is grown in this region because of extreme cold weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Wheat, millet, and soyabean are produced here.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">This is the mining area of South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Minerals : South Korea has comparatively little deposit of mineral resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The coal mines are mainly located in the province of Gangwon.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The production of coal is highest in this province.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">A small quantity of limestone, tungsten, silver, zinc, iron ore, copper, lead, graphite and coal are available here.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Production of coal is higher than other minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The coal is of anthracite quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Industry : South Korea is trying to progress its development through Labor-oriented light industry, heavy chemical industry and Technology-based Hybrid industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The availability of coal and iron ore have accelerated the fast growth of industry in South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">South Korea is developed in the cotton and woollen industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Local cotton is mixed with imported cotton and high quality cotton cloth is manufactured to meet the local demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Extreme cold in winter has created the demand for woollen cloth that has helped the expansion of woollen cloth industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Production of silk manufacturing of cloth has grown here as cottage industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">South Korea imports silk as a raw materials at a lower price from China, and exports the silk products after meeting the local demand through colouring, desiging and weaving of silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Besides, Petro- chemical industry, chemical yarn, machine tools, shipbuilding indurtry, telecommunication, motor car, iron and steel industry, cement and electronics industry have flourished here.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Transportation and Communication : The complex geo-physical structure of mountainous area creates great obstacles in communication system.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Inspite of constructing many roads, the villages become disconnected from the outer world during snowfall in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Railways and roadways are the principal means of communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The railways in the south and south-east region is connected with the railway system in the west through a wide corridor.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">According to 2010 census, the country has 1,04,983 kilometres of roads and 3,399 kilometres of railways.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">After 1960s, the Communication system is very much developed while the number of roads, national express highways, motor vehicles are increased along with economic development of this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">In 1974, underground railway and recently Express railway have been commissioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">As a result, distance becomes less between place to place.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In 2000 A. D., North and South Korea is connected with railway communication system.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">So, the transportation of goods gradully is increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The neighbouring countries are connected through waterways while the distant countries by sea and air.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The communication system by air is comparatively more with the neighbouring countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Foreign Trade : Inspite of having a large population, South Korea exports the surplus of food grains and industrial goods to foreign countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The trade relation with China and Japan is much healthier.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It has also trade relationship with Taiwan, Philippines, Bangladesh, India, the oil rich countries of the Middle East and the United States of America.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">High quality garments, electronics, computer parts and shipbuilding industries have turned South Korea into one of the most prosperous countries of Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Foreign markets have been opened for export.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Rice, soyabean, silk and fish are imported.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Iron, machineries, paper, medicines and cotton of high quality are the main imported items.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Cities and Ports : Seoul is the capital of South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Busan is the oldest and biggest port.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">These two cities are quite different in prosperity and progress in comparision to other cities.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Inchon is the second largest port.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Daegu, Daejeon, Gwangju and Mokpo are other important cities.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Population : National industrialisation and urbanization has improved a lot in South Korea during the decades of 1960 and Besides, huge population migrated from the village to the towns specially in Seoul.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">As a result, population has increased rapidly in metropolitan area.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">In recent years, many of the inhabitants of Seoul has immigrated in the Suburb areas of the city.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The rate of population growth in South Korea is 0.29 per cent, birth rate 15.63 per cent, death rate 4.98 per cent, net migration rate 0.9 per cent, infant mortality rate 20.9 per cent and the life expectancy is 80.08 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">A number of different tribal people live in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The Chinese population is about 20,All above the age of 10 years, can read and write.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">95 per cent of the total population is literate.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Development Trends : South Korea achieved its independence from foreign rule in Since then, the country has recorded consistent economic growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Behind this growth, there has been the export oriented planned economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">According to world population data sheet of 2010, the Annual Gross National Income (GNI) of this country was 28,120 US Dollars.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The economy of the country has been kept enliven through stable labour market, strong pressure of inflation and rapid growth of savings in banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">According to the census of 2008, about 2 crore 43 lakh and 47 thousand people used to participate in economic activities which accounts for 61.8 per cent of the total population of which 75.9 per cent are indirectly engaged in social, capital and other services, 10.9 per cent in mining and industries, 7.2 per cent people in agriculture, forestry, and fisheries.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Location and area : South Korea is a country of East Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">North Korea is in its north, Japan Sea to the east, Korea Strait to the south and Yellow Sea to the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The strait of Korea has seperated South Korea from Japan.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Total area of this country is 1,00,032 square kilometres and about 4 crore and 89 lakh people live in this country with a density of 491 persons per square kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Climate : South Korea enjoys the maritime temparate Climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">In summer, wind blows from south-east and in winter from north-west.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The summer monsoon causes rainfall during April to September.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">But the winter monsoon coming from the mainland of Asia being dry does not give any rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The month of March is the time for cyclonic storms and the months from July to August for Typhoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Natural vegetation : The forests in South Korea have a mixture of conifereous and deciduous trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The deciduous forests are in the mountainous region and the plains have rainfed forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Agriculture : 20.6 per cent of the total land of the country is used for agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Rice is the principal crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Rice is grown in the southern and western parts of the country with wet farming system.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Mulberry, soyabean, cotton, tobacco, flax and jinseng are produced as cash crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Mineral resources : Small amount of limestone, silver, zinc, tungsten, iron ore, copper, lead, graphite and coal are mined in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Anthracite coal is available here.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Industry : Though the coal and the iron ore exist in South Korea but still a mentionable quantity of raw meterials are imported.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The industries are flourishing rapidly in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Cotton and woollen cloth manufacturing are the principal industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Silk cloth production is treated as cottage industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Chemical yarn, petro- chemical, machinery, cement, shipbuilding industries, electronic industries have developed fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Transport and communication : Railways and roadways are extensively used for transportation and communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The communication system in the south is comparatively more developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Trade and communication with foreign countries are also maintained by sea and air.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Foreign trade : Rice, Soyabean oil, silk, fish, high quality garments, electronics, computer mechineries are exported and the iron and steel machineries, paper, medicine, high quality cotton, motor car, ships, semi-conductor and mobile phones are imported.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Population and development trend : According to 2009 census, the rate of population growth in South Korea is 0.29 per cent, the birth rate 15.63 per cent, death rate 4.98 per cent, net migration rate 0.9 per cent, infant mortality rate 20.9 per cent and life expectancy is 80.08 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The country achieved independence from foreign rule in 1945 and attained continuous economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">According to world population data sheet of 2010, the Annual Gross National Income (GNI) of this country is 28,120 US Dollars.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The economy of South Korea has been kept enliven through stable labour market, strong pressure of inflation and rapid growth of savings in the banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Nearly 2 crore people belong to the labour force of the country.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
