<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-17</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.207</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">306</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3805</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1061</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t64">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Cloth is one of our fundamental needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Yarn is required for manufacturing cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The constituent of yarn is fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">In fact yarn is a fibrous thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In general sense any fibre is called yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">But in weaving industry, those things which make it possible to weave and knit yearn are called fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Yarns are made from fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Cloths are manufactured from yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Besides, fibres are largely used for making carpets, different kinds of woven materials, filters and electric insulators.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">From the very early days, cotton yarns, silk, wool and linen were used in weaving industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">These can be collected easily from natural sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In the last part of nineteenth century people have been producing chemical fibre - like polythene, nylon, polyester etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">In order to keep pace with time several types of artificial fibres have been developed in this century.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Different industries and many researchers have been working regularly for producing easy cost fibres and yarns in order to adjust with the comparative market.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Fibres are mainly classified into two classes on the basis of their sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Such as, natural fibres and artificial fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Fibres which are obtained from plants, animals and minerals are called natural fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The fibres that have been developed by scientists in the laboratories by chemical reactions of different substances are called artificial fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Natural fibres: Cotton, jute, linen, wool, silk and asbestos, these are the natural fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Natural fibres have been classified into three classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">These are plant fibres, animal fibres and mineral fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">More than half of the total demand of world is fulfilled with these natural fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Fibres which are produced from plants and trees are called plant fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Cotton is included in this class and is very familiar.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">This fibre is collected from the fruits of a plant which is known as cotton plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The fibres exist around the seeds inside the fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Due to this, another name of this fibre is seed fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Besides these, a very well known another seed fibre is kapok.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The fibre that is obtained from the bark of trees are known as plant cell fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Fibres of this type, jute is mentionable.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Jute fibre is collected from the bark of the jute plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Lilen is another mentionable fibre next to jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Oil seed plants known as Mosinee or linseed plants in our country have their general name flax.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Lilen fibres are produced from the bark of flax type plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Hemps, rainy mesta etc. are more examples of plant cell fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Ropes, sacs bags etc. are made from these.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Fibres can also be produced from leaves, roots or stems of trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Such as, manila, sisal, pine apple etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">These are called vascular fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">These fibres are of two types - hair or wool and silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Hair or wool is produced from the hairs of horse, camels and different sheep like animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The surface of the wool fibers are not plain.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">As a result, air remains confined in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">So wearing the woolen dress we feel warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Fibres are collected by a special method from the cocoons of a kind of silk worm.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">This fibre is called silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Silk is the strongest of all natural fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Mineral fibres: A kind of fibre is formed in between the layers of rocks under the earth in mines.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">These are called asbestos.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Asbestos is the non conductor of sound, high temperature and electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">This fibre is also used for making insulators, fire and sound resistant materials etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">But cloths made from this fibre are harmful to health, specially it creates problem in respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The fibres which can not be directly collected from natural sources but are produced in the laboratories by mixing different chemicals, are called artificial fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Most of artificial fibres belong to plastic group.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Chemists during research on plastic obtained the method for making fibres from chemicals.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">These fibres having this quality is woven into cloths.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Generally chemicals are melted by a machine into different liquids.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Then the liquid is passed under very high pressure through a dice having very narrow holes by means of a machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In this way the chemicals coming out of the holes in the form of fibres are cooled and hardened as yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">This type of yarn is of various classes and different qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">These are classified into two classes, viz cellulosic fibres and non cellulosic fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Cellulose is a very fine fibrous substance which forms the body, cells of plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">It is also called regenerated fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Cellulosic fibres are produced from small fibres of cotton, bamboo or saw dust.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Rayon is a cellulosic fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">This was the first artificial fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Cellulose acetate is produced by treating cellulose with acetic acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Rayon and acetate are used to make cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Rayon is used to make tyres of cars.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Viscose rayon, cupraammonium rayon, acetate rayon etc. are the cellulosic fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Scientists have prepared substances by chemical reactions of carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen etc. which have fibre like qualities but they are not natural celluloses.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">These are non-cellulosic or synthetic fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Nylon, polyester, acrylic, aramid, spandex polypropylene are the important examples of this type.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Synthetic is the first synthetic fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">It is light and strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">It is used for making carpets, ropes, tyres etc. Polyester is a long lasting fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">It returns to its initial position even by twisting.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Different cloths, hard sheets, pillows etc. are manufactured from this.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Besides, plastic fibres are used for making filter, sails of boats and many other usable things.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Acrylic fibres are soft and long lasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It is like wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Due to this artificial fibres are made from this.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">New fibres of better quality are being produced by mixing cellulosic and non-cellulosic fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Very fine wires of yarns are made mechanically into any soft metal like gold, copper or their alloys.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Threads or yarns are made from different metals by covering them sometimes by plastics or by some other metal alloys, some time by a mixture of plastic-alloy or sometime by single substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">These metallic fibres are used to make decorative cloths.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">For example ornamental cords, myeler, drubostrone, remit etc. Yarns are required for weaving cloths.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Yarns are manufactured from fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The spinning of yarns is different according to the nature of the available sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">There is no general method for making yarn from fibres of all these sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">But the first step in all cases is to collect fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The method of collection of fibres from different sources are different.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">For example, in the case of cotton, fruits are at first collected from the field and then cotton fibres are separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The separation of cotton from seeds is called ginning.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">There are different methods adopted for ginning.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">After separating cotton from seeds by ginning the primary cotton thus obtained is called cotton lint.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">This is the fundamental constituent for producing yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Bales are bound with desirable quantities of cotton lint.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">These bales are brought to the spinning mills for weaving yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Methods of collection of fibres from jute, hemps, linseed etc. are quite different.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Usually matured plants are cut and dipped into water for a few days in order to make then rotten.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Then the fibres are separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">These fibres are washed into clean water, then dried in the sun and are bound to bales.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">These bales are brought into the mills for spinning.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Fibres of wool are the hairs of animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">For manufacturing woolen yarns, hairs are sheered from animals by different methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The animals remain alive after hair cutting and new hairs grow later on its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">In this way hairs may be collected more than once from the same animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">These collected hairs are called freeze wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">These freeze wools are taken to mills for spinning.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Yarns are collected or produced directly in the case of silk or artificial fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Cotton or jute bales are brought in the mills for spinning.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">It should be remembered that the same mill does not spin yarn from all types of fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The method of spinning from different fibres are different.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The mills for spinning of different fibres are also different.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Although different mills spin yarns in different methods there are some general similarities among the methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">In this chapter the process is discussed in brief.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Cotton lints bound into bales are first brought to the blow room.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Here cotton is crushed with a special machine and mixture of different types of cotton is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">This is called blending and mixing.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In the case of cotton it is called blending and called batching in the case of jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Combing is the second step of the process of blending or batching and mixing fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">In weaving industry this combing is called carding and combing.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Carding and combing are done for the fibres of cotton, linen, wool etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">There is a difference in carding and combing method on the basis of the length and nature of fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Dust particles, dirts, excess small fibres are removed from fibres by the method of carding.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Some fibres only need carding and there is no need of combing.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Combing is required for very fine, smooth and narrow yarns only.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">A special type of combing is done only for linen.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This is called hatching.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">This makes yarn very fine.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Fibres become stratified by means of combing and carding in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">This stratification is called sliver.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Yarns are spun from this sliver.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The last stage of weaving industry is to spin yarn from sliver.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">This is called spinning.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">In this stage slivers are warped and is gradually arrowed down.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">At a certain stage only a few fibres remain at the end of the sliver.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">In this way changed slivers are twisted.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The process of making the sliver thin is called roding and the process of twisting of the yarn is called twisting.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Due to twisting of sliver, the fibres combine with each other to make yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Naturally the strength of yarn increases with the increase of twisting of yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">On the other hand, excess of twisting may break the yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Amount of yarn may vary depending on the length and other qualities of the original fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Jute or linen having long fibres, less amount of twisting is to be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">On the other hand cotton, woolen etc. having shorter length, more amount of twisting are to be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The amount of twist and its direction are determined by a machine known as twist counter.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Silk worms produce a kind of cocoons.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Matured cocoons are boiled with soap water in an iron container.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">These boiled cocoons become very soft and get up as a layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">From this an end or a vein of fiber can be obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">If this end is carefully pulled, long yarn comes out with the help of a spinning wheel 5-7 veins of cocoons for fine yarn and 15-20 veins for thick or medium yarn are made into a skein of yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">When these veins are taken in contact they combine together to make desirable yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">All the artificial fibers are manufactured more or less in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">A kind of adhesive solution is made by chemical reaction of more than one small fibre and chemical substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Then long veins like yarn are prepared from this adhesive solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">This solution is called spinning solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The spinning solution is passed under very high pressure by a special mechanism through very narrow holes like fountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The flow of fountains are passed into some chemicals and other arrangement so that it may be coagulated very soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Due to this long vein of yarn come easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">It is used directly in weaving.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The machine through which the vein of yarns come out is called spinneret.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">A spinneret is shown in the figure.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Thick, medium and thin yarns are used in weaving industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The more in the radius of yarn the more it is thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Cloths prepared from thick yarns are thick and heavy.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">On the other hand, cloths made of thin yarns are fine, soft and light.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Yarns thick or thin, is represented by count of yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">During buying cloth we used to say 80 yarns cloth or cloth of 80 numbers or cloth of 100 yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Cloths of 100 yarns are thin and light than the cloths from the yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">These numbers of yarns are calculated on the basis of the variation of the radius of the yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">This is called count of yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">There are three conventional methods for determining the count of the yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The first two methods are old but yet now these are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Still now the old systems for count of yarns in our country are expressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The more thick the yarn is, the higher is the number of counts in direct system.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">In indirect system the more thick the yarn is, less is the number of count of yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">As a result, there arises confusion in this description of count.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Again there is no relationship between the two systems for variation in lengths and weights of different yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Different systems are in use in different countries for various fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">This creates confusions and problems in international export and import business.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">In order to overcome this problem universal or international system has been introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Eventually, International Standardization Organization (ISO) has declared this system to avoid the complexities of direct and indirect method and to establish a relation between the two.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">This system is called Tex.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">In this system count is determined according to metric system of weights and measures by means of per unit length of the yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">For this purpose gram is taken as the unit of mass and kilometer is taken as the unit of length.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">That is, the mass of 1000 meter or 1 km length of yarns is 1 gram, then the count of this yarn is to be taken as 1 tex.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">In order to make the garments attractive and charming it requires internal qualities as well as the colour also are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The external beauty and charm of clothes and dresses are increased largely by suitable colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Some times the cloths and fibres have its own colour but still the fibres may be made beautiful by applying separate colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Cloths can be decorated by printing like colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">But there is some difference between printing and colouring.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Colouring is done in the whole of the cloth or fibres while printing is done on one side or selected side of the cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The process of colouring of fibres, yarns or clothes with different colour is known as dyeing.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">There were few colours in the primary stage of weaving industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Now we see a lot of colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Colours can be classified in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Some types of colours dissolve in water or any other liquid, another types of colours do not dissolve in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Water soluble colours are called dye and water insoluble colours are called pigment.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Some of these colours are natural and some are artificial.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">In the primitive period people extracted colours from natural sources while some of colours are also extracted even now.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The colours which can be extracted from the bark, flowers, fruits, roots, creepers, leaves of trees are known as vegetable dye.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">In our country colour are extracted from shefalis, polash, kusum flowers etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Colours can also be extracted from saffron, turmeric, myrobalan, sandal wood, cassia leaves, hena china rose, roungon root etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">One upon a time blue colour was extracted from indigo plants which was used for colouring.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Methods of extraction of dye from animal sources like vegetables was continued from ancient period.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">For example, cochinitrap, shellac etc. are used for silks and wools.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">These are called animal dye.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Besides, vegetable and animal sources dyes obtained from metals are called metallic dye.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Such as Prussian blue, chrome yellow are the examples of metal metallic dye.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">In 1856 William Henry Parkin first discovered the method of synthesis of colour by chemical reaction in the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">In this way colours produced by chemical reactions are called artificial or synthetic colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">At present, uncountable numbers of synthetic colours are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Houndreds of dyeing industries side by side textile industries have been developed in the countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Artificial colours have been made attractive and durable through gradual experiments and research.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Artificial colours are of eight types.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Different salts produced from acids are used as acid colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Such as sodium sulphate is used as acid colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Its practical name is glober's salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">This is dissolved in water very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">This colour is used for dying animal fibres like silk wool and synthetic fibres like, orlene, acrylic, nylon etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">This colour is the cheapest.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">This colour is not settled in cotton at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">It is washed away in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">But in the case of silk and wool, it settles more.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">These colours are also called commercial dyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Basic dye is produced from alkaline organic substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">This is also called aniline dye because it was first derived from a compound name aniline.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">This colour is used for colouring cotton, linen, silk and wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">But it is generally bright and settle for silk and wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Besides, animal fibres a mordant dye is applied before application of this dye to cotton, linen, acetate or nylon.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">This type of dye is known as powder or granular dyes in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Many dyes do not settle down in clothes or fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">After dyeing, colour is washed away when the cloth is washed in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">For this purpose prior to desired dying a coal of mordant dye is to be applied to the yarns or clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">If the coat settles down to yarns then the dye can settle properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">This coat is called mordant.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The dye applied to the clothes with a mordant are called mordant dyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">For example, potash alum is mordant.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Clothes are to be immersed in solution of potash alum solution before dyeing.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">As a result, dye becomes settled down.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Besides this chromium, iron, aluminum or tin act as mordants.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The dyes which do not require mordant before dyeing are called direct dyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">This dye is more fixed to woolen and even it is more or less fixed for silk also.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">But it is used more in cotton clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The cloth which is to be coloured directly, it is first heated with potassium dichromate solution for 20 minutes and then washed away in clean water so that the applied colour does not wash away.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Sometimes by using copper sulphate solution the same result is obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Some direct dyes are converted into a very stable colour by special methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">This method is called diazotizing or developing.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">While applying dye, cloth is first immersed in a cold sodium nitrite solution in a container.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">As a result the main dye becomes an active chemical.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">This type of dye is used for dyeing cotton, linen, rayon, acetate, orlen, dacron etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">This dye is usually used in printing cotton clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The clothes are first immersed in napthol and then into diazotized dye.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Then the cloth is washed away with soap water after dyeing.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">At the time of application of this colour it is cooled again and again with ice.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">So it is called as ice dye also.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">This colour is fixed in soap even in bleaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">But it fades gradually in light.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Vat dye settles down mostly in the clothes of cotton, linen and rayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">This dye can also be used in the synthetic fibres like, nylon, dacron, orlen, acrylic, spandex etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Vat dye is not appropriate for silk and wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Three types of vat dyes; indigo vat, anthaquinovat and sulphur vat.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Dye is applied at different stages of weaving industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Dye is applied in some cases in fibres, in some cases in yarns, in some cases in clothes and again in some cases in finished garments.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Stock dyeing is done when the fibres remain in stored condition or as raw materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">In this method the fibres are immersed in a container or in a bucket containing dye.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Two process are used for this purpose, such as solution process and top process.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">In solution process dye is applied to the fibres prior to spinning.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">This process is less expensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Dyeing in this process does not fade easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">But as a result the fibres become hard causing difficulty in spinning.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The method of dyeing in top process is little different.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Dye is given to the top of the separate rope from combing machine like heads of wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The ropes are rolled like balls in a spindle having holes and kept in a tank through which dye is pumped with a machine and passed out.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">In this way dye is applied to the fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Again during combing and at the time of slivering, dye is applied to different parts of the fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">As a result, beautiful colour appears at different parts after spinning.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">This is called slab dyeing.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Yarn dyeing is done to the yarns before cloths are woven.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Yarn made from fibres are rolled around a spool or skein.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">At this stage dyeing is done by dissolving the yarns in a solution of dye.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">In this method dyeing of colour becomes very stable.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Colouring of cloths after made is called piece dyeing.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Sometime it is called deep dyeing also.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">In this method dye does not contact closely to the fibres but it is less expensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The colour may not be stable because this method does not ensure uniform contact of dye with yarns or fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Piece dyeing is applied to the linen, silk and very thin cotton cloths like organdie, voile etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">In this process cloths are passed through two rollers fitted in a container or dram containing of dye.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">As a result, cloths get coloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Rayon or nylon is coloured in this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">In industries this method is applied for quick dyeing of very big rolls of cloths.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Dyeing of many cloths can be done by means of printing techniques.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Actually printing does not include any class of dyes or colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Printing is a process in which colouring of cloth is done by pressing.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">This gives different designs in different dyes at various parts of the cloths.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Different designs are excavated in different rollers.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The necessary dye is applied to the roller and the roller is pressed on the cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Again printing may be done with small dices also.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">In all these cases prints are given to only one side of the cloth and the other side remains white or print less.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Dye makes cloths attractive and charming.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">But the sources of most of the dyes are chemicals.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">After dyeing if the waste materials are not destroyed properly in the mills it will cause environmental pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Specially, dye waste in a pond or river occur water pollution and it causes the damage to aquatic animals and plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Dye wastes are harmful to the agricultural product also.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">So in order to maintain balance of environment the dye wastes should be drained out carefully.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
