<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-genSci-10</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:04.968</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">278</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3829</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1416</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t57">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">This world is the home of various kinds of animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Animals of various sizes and shapes ranging from microscopic amoeba to huge bodied blue whale inhabit the different environments.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Though many of these are beneficial to human beings, some are harmful too.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">In order to bring this vast animal kingdom to the use of human beings, or to protect them from their harmful effects, it is essential to know about these animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The most convenient way to study the numerous animals is to classify them.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The classification is based on the specific features, and the inter-relationship and inter-dependency among animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Till today, about 1.5 million species of animals have been discovered, and everyday new species are being identified.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Species is the lowest tire of classification.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">For example, human, bird, lizard, frog each are different species.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Usually the members of same species have similar characteristics and are able to interbreed and produce fertile offsprings.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">In the history of classification, the names of Aristotle, John Ray and Carolus Linnaeus are worthy of mention.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Linnaeus is called the Father of classification of living things, as he first scientifically classified the animals into groups and subgroups, and at the same time he introduced a system of naming animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The system of classification established by Linnaeus is called the binomial system of nomenclature.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The name used under this system of classification is also called the scientific name.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Following the classification, the scientific name for human is Homo sapiens, the national animal of Bangladesh is Panthera tigris, hilsa fish is Tenualosa ilisha, Indian robin is Copsychus saularis.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">This naming process creates a standard way for scientists around the world to communicate about the same organism, whatever may be the local name in different languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Based on different characteristics the animals are classified in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Number of cell: When the body of an animal is formed of only one cell, it is called unicellular or protozoa; and when formed of more than one cell, an animal is called multicellular or metazoa.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Amoeba and malarial parasite are examples of unicellular organism, while cockroach, earthworm, fish are examples of multicellular organism.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Vertebral column: When an animal has a vertebral column or spinal chord, it is called a vertebrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">When the vertebral column is absent, an animal is called invertebrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Amoeba, cockroach, mosquito, snail, marine starfish are invertebrates; while fish, frog, bat, whale are vertebrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Notochord: Animals that posses, at least for some time in their lives, a stiff rod called a notochord, are called chordates.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Those without notochord are called non- chordates.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Fish, frog and so on are chordates; while amoeba, earthworm, cockroach, snail and so on are non-chordates.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Scientists have classified the animal kingdom into more than 30 divisions called Phylum.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The ten major phyla, along with the nature of the animals, their features, and importance to human life is discussed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Animals belonging to phylum protozoa have only one cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">So these are called unicellular animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">These are so small that they can be seen only with the help of a microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Protozoa have no differentiation into tissue or tissue systems, and all organic functions of the body is carried out by the single cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">They move with the help of pseudopodia, flagella, or cilia.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Few protozoa move by contraction and relaxation of the body cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The habitat of most species is water or moist soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Most protozoa are free living, but some are parasitic living on other animals, and cause much harm to the host.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">There are about 50,000 species in this phylum.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Example: Amoeba, entamoeba, plasmodium, paramecium, giardia, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Dysentery causing micro-organism Entamoeba is a simple unicellular animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">This lives as a parasite in the intestine of human and cause dysentery.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The body is formed by a nucleus and cytoplasm enclosed within the cell membrane.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The entamoeba spreads into the environment through the faeces of infected persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The organism enters the human body by contaminated water or vegetables, and cause dysentery in the intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Sometimes more serious condition may occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Symptoms of dysentery include pain in the lower abdomen, stool mixed with blood and mucus.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">As a preventive measure to protect oneself from dysentery it is essential that open-air defecation be avoided, and sanitary latrine used for disposal of faeces.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">This disease can be prevented if boiled water or water from tube-wells is drunk;</sent>
				<sent id ="47">water and vegetables are protected from being contaminated; and food is protected from flies and cockroaches.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">If affected by dysentery, one should take medications on physician's prescription.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Malarial germ: Plasmodium is a unicellular parasitic organism.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">At one stage of their life cycle, plasmodium live in the body of vertebrates including human beings, and the other stage is passed in the body of female anopheles mosquito.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Through female mosquito the sporozoites enter human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">In the liver the sporozoites multiply, and cause enlargement of the liver.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The organism then invades the red blood cells and multiply there, and eventually break down the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">At this stage the infected person has fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Malaria is a disease characterised by chills, and periodic bouts of intense fever, with anaemia.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">When a female mosquito bites an infected person, the micro-organism enters the mosquito and multiplies there.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The organism then resides in the salivary gland of the mosquito.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Animals belonging to the phylum porifera are usually called sponge.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Sponges are mainly marine, with a few freshwater species.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">They are strongly adherent to underwater objects.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">They are multicellular but their body does not have any specific cellular or tissue arrangement.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">There are several small pores in the body wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Water, oxygen and food materials enter the body through these pores.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The water from inside the body is passed out by a large pore.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Sponge is used for mopping and bathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Now a day, artificial sponges are commercially cultivated in many countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">There are about 5000 species in this phylum.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Their body is made up of different types of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The cells are arranged in two layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">In between the two layers is a jelly like substance called mesoglia.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The inside of the body is hollow called coelenteron.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">There is only one opening in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Animals of this phylum are mostly marine, but some are found in fresh water too.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Animals of phylum coelenerata are not of much importance for human beings directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">About 1000 species have been identified.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Animals included in this group are commonly known as flatworm.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Their body is flattened like a leaf or ribbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The digestive system has a mouth but no anus.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Flame cells carryout the excretory functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Most of the animals of this phylum live as parasite on other animals, including human.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">They cause severe harm to the host organism.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">About 10,00,000 species have been identified.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Several types of tapeworms are found in human and other vertebrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The tapeworm called Taenia saginata is found in human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">This lives as a parasite in human intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The body of tapeworm is elongated like a ribbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The tapeworm is characterised by the presence of a pinhead shaped head, or scolex.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Their body is formed of many segments or proglottids.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The head is equipped with sucker for attachment to the intestinal wall of its host.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The worms absorb the digested food of the host through their body surface for survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The segments at the rear end of the worm contain eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">These segments separate from the main body of the worm and pass out with the faeces of the host animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">During grazing, a cow ingests these passed out segments, the eggs hatch in the intestinal tract and release larval forms, which burrow into the intestinal tissue of the host, and are transported by blood to muscles where they form bladder worm.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">When bladder worm is ingested by human beings in raw or half-cooked form, they enter the human intestine and develop into its adult form.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The adult worm survives on the digested intestinal food of the host, and cause harm to human by tissue damage.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The following steps may be taken to prevent infestation by tapeworm.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Animals of this phylum are usually called roundworm.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Many of the nematodes live independently, while some live as parasite in the intestine, blood and parts of the bodies of human and other animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Roundworms are cylindrical, tapering animals consisting of a complete interior gut that has mouth and anus.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">About 12,000 species have been identified.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Roundworm: Roundworm lives as parasite in human intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">It ingests the digested food in the intestine of human causing severe harm to the health of the host specially children.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The roundworms give off fertilised eggs that are passed in the environment through the faeces of the infected person.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">A hard shell covers the fertilised egg.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Under favourable environmental conditions the eggs mature up to a certain stage and remain dormant.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">These eggs reach the intestine of human via food, drink, raw vegetables, and unclean fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In the intestine the eggs hatch into larvae.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">These larvae pass into the blood vessels of the intestine, to pass through liver and heart to reach the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">In the lungs the larvae develop into the adult form, and pass through the trachea and oesophagus to the intestine where they mature and start reproducing.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">An adult female roundworm can lay up to 20,000 eggs a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Hookworm: Hookworms live as endo-parasite in the intestine of human.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">It sucks blood from the walls of the intestine to derive its nutrition, leading to anaemia of the host.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The fertilised eggs of hookworm are passed in the faeces and contaminate the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The larvae that emerge from the eggs pierce the skin of the foot and enter the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">They next pass via the blood through the liver and heart to reach the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The larvae grow in the lungs and then again pass through the trachea and oesophagus to reach the intestine where they mature into adult worm and attach to the intestinal wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Pinworm: Pinworm, commonly known as threadworm, is about 212 millimetre long.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">It is shaped like a thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">They live in the intestine of human, especially children.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The female pinworms lay eggs at night around the anus of the host, thus causing itching around the anus.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Itching of the anus contaminate the fingernails with eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The eggs then pass to the intestine along with the food handled with the contaminated fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The eggs mature into adult forms in the intestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Filaria worm: Filaria worm causes filariasis in human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The disease is mostly found in Thakurgaon, Nilphamari and other districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The worm is shaped like a thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The female worms lay larvae called microfilariae.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The larvae live in the blood of the host.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">These microfilariae when enter the culex mosquito, undergo growth and development.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The microfilariae again enter human host from infested mosquito.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Then the microfilariae develop into adult worms in the lymph glands of the host.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The symptoms and signs of filariasis in a person include fever and headache.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">In some cases the limbs, testes and breasts may be swollen.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Gradually the infected person becomes inefficient and weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The annelida have cylindrical body, that is divided into few ring shaped segments.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Between the digestive tract and the body wall there is a body cavity enclosed in a special membrane, which was seen first in these animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The organ nephridium carryout the excretory functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">About 9000 species belong to this phylum.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Arthropods are the most abundant animals on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">About 10,00,000 arthropod species have been identified.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Their body consists of three or more paired jointed accessory limbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Externally the body is segmented.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The internal soft part of body is covered and protected by pectin containing exo-skeleton.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Arthropods are of great importance to human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Many varieties of prawns including lobster and crayfish are source of protein food for people.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Currently, huge foreign exchange is being earned through the export of prawns.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Insects help in the pollination of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Examples of the benefits humans derive from arthropods include silk from silkworm, and honey and wax from honey bee.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">On the other hand, members of arthropoda, in particular insects, can be formidable pests by devouring crops and spreading life-threatening disease causing micro-organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Example: Palmri insects damage crops, caterpillars damage jute plants, female anopheles mosquito carry malarial parasite, culex mosquito transmits filariasis, aedes mosquito transmit dengue and yellow fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Louses, bed bugs, ticks and mites cause harm to humans and domestic animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The termites, with which we are well acquainted, severely damage homesteads, furniture, and books.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Animals of this phylum are unsegmented with soft fleshy bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Usually a thin membrane called mantle covers the body, which sometimes secrete a juice that forms a shell.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">A mollusc usually moves on muscular foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">About 100,000 species have been identified.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Some of the molluscs are of economic importance, among them the preparation of lime by burning the shell of oysters is worth mentioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The flesh of oyster is eaten in some countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Oysters are also the source of natural pearl.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The shipworm is a menace to wooden boats and ships as they bore into the wood and cause damage.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">c) Vertebrata: Notochord is present in the young animals of this sub-phylum.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In a fully developed vertebrate the notochord transforms into vertebral column.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Animals with vertebral column are called vertebrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Evolutionarily the vertebrates are the most advanced animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The subphylum vertebrata is classified into seven classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Class-1: Cyclostomata: Their body is elongated, that appears like an eel fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Class-2: Chondrichthyes: This type of fish have cartilaginous endoskeleton.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The body is covered by placoid type of scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">They have 57 pairs of gill slits, but have no branchia.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">They all live in oceans and seas.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Class-3: Osteichthyes: This type of fish have bony endoskeleton.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The body is covered by cycloid or ctenoid type of scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">They have four pairs of gills on the two sides of the head that are covered by branchia.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Example: Hilsa, katla, salmon, roop chanda (pomfret), gajar, chital, flying fish, horse fish, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Fishes: Fish are cold-blooded vertebrates whose bodies are adapted to live in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Their bodies are usually covered with scales, carry out respiration through gills, and have fins that help them to swim.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The vertebrate animals of chondrichthyes and osteichthyes are fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Fish is an important source of protein food.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">It is possible to earn huge foreign exchange by exporting fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Fish liver contains vitamins A and D. In Bangladesh there are numerous ponds, lakes, rivers, canals, haor-baor, and beel.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Scientific cultivation of fishes'salmon, katla, mrigel, telapia, magur, tangra, pangash' in these water bodies can help Bangladesh to reduce the unemployment problem, and increase individual and national income to strengthen the economic base of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Class-4: Amphibia: Animals of this class have two stages in their life cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The first is the larval stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">They usually live in water and carry out respiration through gills.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">In the second or mature stage they live on land, and respire through lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Though the mature form live on land, but it is essential that they return to water for egg laying.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Their body is adapted to live in two different environments in the two stages of their lifecycle, and so they are called amphibians.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Their skin is scaleless, soft, thin, moist and glandular.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Amphibians are a cold-blooded animal, that is, their body temperature rises and falls with that of the surrounding environment's temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Example: Golden frogs and toads Frogs are beneficial to human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">They play an important role in maintaining the ecological balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Toads are beneficial to human beings as the toads live on a diet of harmful insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">They help to control mosquitoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The legs of golden frogs are considered a delicacy in many parts of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Hence, through scientific cultivation and export of golden frog, it is possible to earn huge foreign exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Class-5: Reptilia: Reptiles move by crawling, and their bodies are adapted to live on land.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The skin is dry and covered with scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Each of the two pairs of legs has five fingers with nails.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Example: Lizards, iguanas, cobras, crocodiles, turtles Poisonous reptilia: Among the reptiles, only one species of lizard is venomous named gila monster that is found only in South America.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Snakes form the major part of venomous reptiles.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Most snakes are non-venomous.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The venomous snakes are cobras, raj-cobras, kal-keute, shonkhini, Russell's vipers.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Features of snake: Snakes are legless animals with a long, thin cylindrical body.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Snakes are reptiles that move in a zigzag way.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">They do not have tympanum or eyelid.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Snakes cannot hear.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The tongue is bifurcated, and is used as the sense organ for smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Besides the usual teeth, the venomous snakes have two teeth in the upper jaw called fangs.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The fangs are hollow or contain a duct that is connected to the venom gland.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">In case of bites by venomous snakes, two distinct side by side marks of the fangs are noted; while in the bites of non-venomous snakes a line of many small teeth marks are noted.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">A chord of rope or cloth should be tightly tied just above the bite, that is about 23 inches above the bite, which should be loosened for one minute every half hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">A clean sharp blade or knife should be used to cut the bitten site and the blood drained out.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Class-6: Aves: Their body is covered with feathers.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Birds are the only vertebrates with feathers.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Birds are animals with feathers and wings.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Their forelimbs are modified as wings, while the lips into beaks.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The lungs are connected to a series of air sacs, which facilitate the movement of air in the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">This adaptation is needed as birds require an abundant supply of oxygen, which is needed to release energy in the cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">To facilitate flight, birds have lightweight strong skeletons in which many of the major bones are hollow.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">They are warm-blooded animals, that is, their body temperature remain static and does not fluctuate with the temperature of the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Birds are found in many environments.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Most birds can fly.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">They are the birds with flight, like stork, parrot, kite, owl, dove, robin.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Some birds are flightless.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">They have strong legs that are adapted for fast running.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">They are the runner birds, like ostrich.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The ostrich, is the largest species of birds, growing to a height of approximately 2.25 metre, and a weight of more than 150 kilogram.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The ostrich can run at speeds as high as 80 km/hr.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">They live in the deserts of Africa.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Among the other flightless birds are rhea in South America, emu in Australia, cassowary in New Guinea, and kiwi in New Zealand.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Some birds, like ducks, are adapted to live in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Migratory birds: In Bangladesh there is a rich variety of birds'about 600 species.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Of these species, 400 are permanent resident of Bangladesh, and the rest 200 are winter birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Birds in thousands come to Bangladesh from north Himalayan mountain range, Europe and far away Siberia during the winter season, and leave when winter is over.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">These birds are called winter birds, or guest birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The migratory birds that come to Bangladesh include cha-pakhi, swallow, wagtail, kadakhocha, flycatcher, and varieties of ducks (lanja, neelshir, patari, khopa-hansh, bhooti-hansh).</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Birds help to maintain the ecological balance by devouring harmful insects and pests.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">These migratory birds should be left undisturbed and not killed or hunted, rather they should be taken care of and be allowed to roam unhindered.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Class-7: Mammalia: The main features of animals of this class include a body that is covered with hairs, and have mammary glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">With the exception of few, most mammals give birth to live young ones (babies) that are raised on milk produced in the mammary glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Mammals are warm-blooded animals, the heart is four chambered, and the body cavity is separated by transverse diaphragm.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Most mammals have different types of teeth on the two jaws.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Except for camel, the red blood cells in mammals lack a nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Example: Cow, tiger, guinea pig, pig, lion, elephant, panda, whale, bat, rat, monkey, human, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">With the exception of a group of mammals called monotremata that are found in Australia, all mammals give birth to live young ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The monotremes lay eggs, after the eggs hatch the young ones is fed on breast milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Another group of mammals is marsupials.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The females of this group have a pouch called marsupium that has the mammary glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The immature young one delivered from the uterus is carried in the marsupium, where they feed on breast milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">For example, kangaroo.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Most marsupial species are found in Australia and South America.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Human beings have for long domesticated certain species of other mammals, most notable among them are cow, horse, sheep and dog.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Mammals are unique in that they supply protein and hide.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Fur and wool collected from different animals also benefit human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Among the mammals, rats are the most harmful animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">They destroy crop and bring about economic loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The animals included in the phylum chordata, subphylum vertebrata, and class mammalia are considered to be superior to other animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Among the mammals, human are the most superior.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The human brain is the most developed among all animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Using this brain, human beings have been able to establish their authority and control over other animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The other features that make human unique is that they can walk upright, can grasp with the hands, and can use their past experience.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals that are not domesticated, and survive without human help are called wildlife.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Wildlife do not live only in forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">These animals live in nature in different water bodies (haor-baor, beel, pond, river, ocean), hills and mountain, islands, including the bushes and forests near or far from human dwellings.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Wildlife is one of the natural resources of a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">They play an important role in maintaining ecological equilibrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">During the last several years many of the wildlife in Bangladesh have become extinct.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Among these are rhinoceros, wild buffalo, swamp deer, stag, nilgai, wolf, bison, bunting variety of wild cow, redheaded duck, peacock, and fish-eating crocodile.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">In Bangladesh, currently there are about 850 species of wildlife.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">If measures for conservation are not taken immediately, about 100150 species of wildlife may become extinct soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Among the animals on the verge of extinction are the Royal Bengal Tiger, leopard, baghdash, khatash, fox, spotted deer, squirrel, bonrui, macaques, gibbon, kite, owl, wild cock, adjutant stork, modontek, waterfowl, koda, hornbill, gharial, salt-water crocodile, python, boro kaitta, frog.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">To preserve wildlife, human beings ought to be sympathetic and considerate towards them.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Indiscriminate killing, hunting, buying and selling, exporting of wildlife should be strongly discouraged.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">This should be practised at individual and group levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The Bangladesh Wildlife Preservation Act, 1973 is there for the preservation of wildlife.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Implementation of the Act is essential for the preservation of wildlife.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Side by side, the people of Bangladesh need to be made aware of the necessity of preservation of wildlife.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">It is possible to preserve the wildlife in the country without causing imbalance in the ecology of the country.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
