<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-hind-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.066</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">245</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2700</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1044</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t93">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The knowledge or manners that is based on morality is called moral knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This knowledge or principle is helpful for men and useful for society.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The man who has that knowledge can differentiate between good and bad, right and wrong, virtue and vice and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">There are a number of ethical principles.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Here we shall discuss about Humanity, Generosity, Moral courage and Patriotism.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Humanity is a virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Man has animality and rationality.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Man controls his animality.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">He follows some principles or morals.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">As he is a social being, he is responsible for maintaining social laws based on morality and humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">He feels for himself as well as for his fellowmen.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">His affection, love and care for others is known as humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">When a man finds others hungry, he feels for them and tries to feed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Again when he finds others in difficulty, he tries his best to remove his difficulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">This humane feeling is an example of humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">God lives in human beings as souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">So to love man is to love God.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">So humanity is certainly a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Here is a Pouranic story of humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Long, long ago, there was an emperor named Rantideva.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Though he was a great emperor, he led a simple life.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">He was not at all interested in earthly things.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">He was devoted to Shree Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He considered Krishna's grace above everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">He sacrificed everything in the name of Krishna and had Ajachak britti (not asking ; profession).</sent>
				<sent id ="26">According to this profession, one is not allowed to beg.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">He would lead his life on peoples kindness and receive what they would willingly offer him.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Once it had happened that Rantideva had been starving for forty eight days continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He did not ask anyone to give him something to eat and none offered him any food.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">On the 49th day, one of his devotees offered him some food and payees.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The emperor was going to break his fasting with that food.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">All on a sudden, there appeared a weak and a hungry man, probably a day labourer.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">He had also a dog with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">He begged food to the king for him as well as for his dog.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He said that he had been without food for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The emperor Rantideva was very much moved at the wretched condition of the man and the dog.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He at once offered the man the whole amount of food and payees that he got a while ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">After eating that food the man said that he was still hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">At this Rantideva got sorry and politely informed him that he had no food to give him.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">He (R) had been without food for 48 days, yet he (R) could have the sense to offer the food he got on the 49 days to another hungry and wretched wan.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">This is a vivid example of humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">A more wonderful thing happened all on a sudden.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The emperor Rantideva found Shree Krishna himself standing before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">He was astonished.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He bowed down his head.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">God himself took the form of a begger and came down to prove Rantideva's sense of humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The emperor won the test.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Man has good habits as well as bad habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">He also possesses narrowness and greatness.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">His generosity places him in the high position of society.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">He loves all and tries to make good to everyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">He is a relative to the people of the whole world.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">He is above meanness, narrowness, communalism, pride, jealousy and hatred.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">He is above all these vices because he is a man of having generosity.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">This quality inspires a man to love others.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">It enhances his soul and helps him to be devoted to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Generosity means greatness of feeling or broad-heartedness.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Here is a story of generosity from a mythological tale.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In ancient days there was a sage named Bashista.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">He was aBrahmaharshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He was a Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">At that time, another king Biswamitra, though a Ksmatriya, became a sage owing to his devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">He was not satisfied with this.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He had a keen desire to become a Brahmaharshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">For this he needed to have the recognition of Bashista, the Brahmin saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">But as Biswamitra did not have acquired so much qualities or virtues that a Brahmaharshi required, Bashista did not give him recognition.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">At this Biswamitra got angry and with the help of mantras transformed a king to a demon.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">He ordered the demon to eat one hundred sons of Bashista.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The demon did accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">This could not change the mind of Bashista.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">He remained calm and quiet.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">He did not do anything against Biswamitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">He even did not rebuke him.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">On the other hand, Biswamitra decided to kill him unless he accepted him as Brahmaharshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">So he entered into Bashistas house quietly and waited for the opportune moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Arundhuti was the wife of Bashista.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">She needed salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">So she asked her husband to fetch some salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Then Bashista told his wife to go to Biswamitra to have some salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">His wife got astonished at this and said she did not understand how he could ask her to go to a person who had killed their one hundred sons for a negligible thing like salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Bashista then said, I love Biswamitra much.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He is not yet competent to be a Brahmaharshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">But he will have that honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Then I shall recognise him to be a Brahmaharsi.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">May he be more zealous and engage himself in woshipping God.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">I want this.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Biswamitra heard all these from the hiding place.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">He was very much sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">He fell at Bashista's feet and begged to be excused.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He got Biswamitra up and said, I am happy to see that you have already conquered anger and pride.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">I bless you and pray for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">From to-day you have become Brahmaharshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Biswamitra again fell at his feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Bashista embraced him most affectionately.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The word bravery means fearlessness.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Showing readiness to face any difficulty is another form of bravery or courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">This bravery can be shown either in good or in bad intentions.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">But the courage that is shown to perform a good or useful work refers to moral courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">When the weak are oppressed, it becomes the duty of the strong to protect them, boldly.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">To show moral courage in the battle field is the duty of a hero.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Here is a story of a great hero who showed moral courage in a battlefield from the Mahavarata.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The Moral Courage of Avimannyu Long long ago, there was a king in Hashtinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The kings were from the dynasty of Kurus.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Bichitrabija was one of the kings who had two sons Dhritarastra and Pandu.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Dhritarastra was elder than Pandu.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">But he (D) was blind from his birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">According to the system the eldest son used to become the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">But as he was blind from his birth, it was not possible to continue the system.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">It was not followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Pandu was made the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Dhritarastra's wife was Gandhari.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">They had one hundred sons and only one daughter named Dushala.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The names of some of their sons are Duryodhana, Dushasan, Bikarna etc. Pandu had two wives named Kunti and Madri.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Kunti had three sons named Yudhisthira, Bhima and Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Madri had two sons named Nakula and Sahadeva.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Dhritarastra's sons were known as Kaurabas while the sons of Pandu were called Pandavas after their Parents name.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">On the question of the ownership of the kingdoma battle took place between the two parties- Kaurabas and Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The battle took place in the famous battlefield of Kuruksmetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">In this battle Avimannyu played a heroic role and he is still a legendary figure for his rnoral courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Let us see what happened in the war of Kuruksmetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Yudhisthira arranged his army quite intelligently.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Durjodhan made his grandfather Bhisma the commander -in-chief of the army.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Dronacharya, the chief trainer of arms, also joined the Kourabas.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The hero Karna also was with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Shree Krishna, the king of Dwaraka, helped Durjodhana with ten crores of soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Lord Krishna, the supreme personality of Godhead drove the chariot of Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He did not agree to fight personally.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">At one stage of the battle, Arjuna was fighting bravely against the big army of the Kourabas and the Kourabas were about to meet defeat.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">They could not stand against Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Then Duryodhana and Dronacharya sat to discuss what to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">It was decided that Dronacharya would fight making a circular array of troops.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">This battle order is a special form which has eight round lines of soldiers with only one opening.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">It is very difficult to cross the round line of the soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Bhima, Satyaki, Dhristtaduma-all of the Pandava's failed to cross that wheel shaped battle order.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Yudhisthira got alarmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Arjuna, Shree Krishna, Pradyumno and Arjuna's son Avimannyu knew how to cross that battle order.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Arjuna was busy fighting elsewhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Shree Krishna would not take the sword personally to fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He would only drive the chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">There remained only Avimannyu.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">But he was only a boy of fourteen years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">He knew how to enter into the wheel lined soldiers but he did not know how to come out of that.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">But one had to be there to face the wheeled lined soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Otherwise they were to surrender.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">So Yudhisthira ordered Avimannyu to face the army and break through the line of the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">He also added that they would unitedly fight and help him to come out of the fortification.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Avimannyu, though a boy, gladly consented and faced the army.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">He shot shower of arrows and killed a large number of soldiers of the opponent party.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Duryodhana, Karna and other great heroes got defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Then finding no other way, the seven charioteers, Dronacharya, Karna, Dushasan, Kripacharya, Shakuni, Aswathama and Duryodhana in a body started fighting against Avimannyu, a boy of fourteen years old, They were defeated seven times.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">During eight times, the seven charioteers attacked Avimannyu from all sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">This time the boy Avimannyu became swordless and chariotless.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">He continued his fighting with the wheels of the chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">At last he fell down and died.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Thus Avimannyu met his death boldly, freely and with no hesitation in-his mind for a noble cause.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">This heroic incident is still fresh in the minds of the people and Avimannyu's courage and his name is written in the pages of the Mahavarata.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Patriotism is a great virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">It is an inherent quality in human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It creates in man a great love and affection for his motherland, the land of his birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">In a religion, patriotism plays an important role to form character.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">In the scripture it is said, Janoni janmabhumischo sargadopi gariashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Mother and motherland are greater than paradise.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The poet has rightly sung, Oh, the soil of my country, let me bow my head to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">A patriot must prove his love for his motherland by action.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The first of these duties is to place country's interest above self- interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">A patriot does not hesitate to sacrifice his life for the cause of his motherland.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">If she is attacked, the patriot fights to the last for her safety.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Here we have such a story of the patriot of ancient age from the Ramayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Kartobiryaryuna was the king of Chandra dynasty of ancient period.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">He had one thousand hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">He was very powerful and a great patriot.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He was loved and honoured by his subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Once he was on his leisure.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">At that time, the ten-headed Ravana, the king of Lankya, attacked his country for the expansion of his (R) kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">An army commander of Kartobiryaryuna opposed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">He called him a coward as he chose the opportune moment when the king was at leisure.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Was he boastful of his 20 hands ?</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The thousand-armed king would pierce his ten heads.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Ravana began to fight with him hearing such an insolent remark.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">In the meantime, the king Kartobiryaryuna heard of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He flew into a rage.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He could not think that his country could be attacked.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">He promised to fight against Ravana.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">He took determination to save his motherland from the enemy force and went to the battlefield direct.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">A fierce fighting took place under his able guidance.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The army of Kartobiryaryuna fought to protect the independence of their country.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">They fought very bravely and selflessly and finally they won the victory.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Ravana, the invader, got defeated and was put in prison.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The news that Ravana was in the prison of Kartobiryaryuna got circulated in the paradise also.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The great saint Pulastya came to know of that news.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">He became very sad because Ravana was his grandson..</sent>
				<sent id ="192">So he got down in the court of Kartobiryaryuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Kartobiryaryua was very much pleased to have the great saint in his court.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He bowed down his head and desired to know his (P) wishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Pulastya first congratulated him and thanked him for his success but he mentioned the incident of Ravana with a heavy heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Pulastya was worried for Ravana as he (R) was his grandson.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">He (P) desired Ravana's freedom.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Then Kartobiryaryuna told him that Ravana had invaded the country and his (K) patriotic soldiers fought to protect the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Hearing all these Pulastya said, Ravana has been defeated to your heroic deeds and great patriotism.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Kartobiryaryuna could not but bow down his head and said, You are a great saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">I beg to fulfill your Wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Ravana got freedom.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">He (R) expressed his grief.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">They made peace treaty.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Wishing them good wishes Pulastya left the place for heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Ravana also left for his country.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Thus ended an interesting story about patriotism of ancient days.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">In some countries drug addiction has at present become a serious national problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">In Bangladesh though it is not a serious problem, the number of addicts are increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Many of our youths fall victims to drug addiction for many reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Some of the reasons are acute unemployment, poverty, political unrest, lack of social security, lack of any particular aim in life for decadence of values etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">An irresistible attraction for some harmful things is addiction.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The materials that cause intoxication in men are called drugs.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Opium, morphine, pathidine, heroin, cocaine, marijuana, hemp, charas, fencidil etc. are called drugs.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">These drugs are used for intoxication.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">In Hindu religion drug addiction has been prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">In the famous scripture Manushanghita, it is mentioned number-2 out of five great sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">In the Padmapurana it has been said that he who takes tobacco will have his rebirth as a boar.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Intoxicating power causes many harmful effects.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">These harmful effects are physical, mental, monetary, moral and social deprecitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Physical effect : It has terrible effect on human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">He feels drowsy.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">He loses appetite.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">It causes dispepsia.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">He loses weight gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">He becomes weaker day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">He suffers from cough, asthma and throat cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">It may damage his kidney and cause so many fatal diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Mental effect : Intoxicating power takes the addict to an unreal world of dreams.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">This is called hallucianation.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">He becomes mentally unbalanced.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The poisonous effect of drugs is dangerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">They damage the brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">They ultimately lead to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Monetary effect : An addict needs much money to satisfy his needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">He is to buy intoxicating materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Sometimes he takes money from his parents, brothers, sisters, near and dear ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">When he fails, he engages himself in sinful acts like stealing, theft by snatching etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Anti-drug law should be framed and enforced strictly.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Dishonest businessmen who carry on illicit but profitable trade of drug materials should be severely dealt with.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Dishonest businessmen who carry on illicit but profitable trade of drug materials should be severely dealt with.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Religious taboos against its production and use should be well circulated and be followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Parents should help in choosing friends of their children and keeping them away from bad company.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The young learners should be made aware of the dangerous and harmful effects of drug and prevented them from taking it by the parents, the teachers and the elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Parents and teachers can help the learners build up their (learners) character with love, affection and good advice Arrangement's for participation in sports and said activities and measures for recreations should be made.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
