<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-hind-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.178</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">701</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">8435</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2566</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t95">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Ideal Biographies Who is that super (great) man, said so firmly to rescue one's life from sin ?</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Yes, He is the most favourite man and the playful incarnation in the Dwapar age of the Shreemath Bhagabath Geeta.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Konsa, the king of Voje dynasty dethroned his father Ugrasen and began to rule the state of Mathura.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">His cousin Debaki was married to Basudeva who was a man of Sura dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The bridegroom and the bride after marriage were being carried in a chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Konsa was himself the pilot of the chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">While the chariot was moving forward a voice from heaven then announced, Oh stupid Konsa, whom do you carry on your chariot, her eighth progeny will kill you.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Hearing the divine voice Konsa became angry and he attempted to kill Deboki holding a falchion.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Basudeva, the bridegroom humbly prayed and said, Please do not kill Deboki.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">I shall give you all children those are given birth by your sister and then you may destroy them easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">At his argument Konsa remained silent.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">But Konsa for his safeguard sent Deboki and Basudeva to a prison cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">During his sister's imprisonment life Konsa killed six of her babies that were given birth by her.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">He found no trace of the seventh issue.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Shree Krishna had descended at the eighth womb of Deboki.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">He took birth at midnight in the prison of Konsa during the month of Vadra on the eighth lunar day of the dark fortnight.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The night was full of foul weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">It was very stormy.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The night guards were asleep and unconcious at the spell of Yogamaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Basudeva took the new born baby himself by an oracle and he came out of the prison.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He went out to keep the baby beside Jasuda who delivered a female child at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Jasuda was the wife of Nanda who was the king of Gokul.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">He came back taking Jasuda's daughter and replaced her child beside Deboki successfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">On the next morning Konsa came to the prison cell hurriedly to kill the eighth child of Deboki.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">She (D) humbly prayed to save her child and made earnest request but Konsa rejected her prayers.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">As he took the female child and pulled its head to kill by throwing on the ground, she flew away from his hands suddenly.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Going upwards the baby said, O Konsa, Narayana has taken birth to kill you.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Hearing such a divine voice Konsa got frightened for probable death.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">So he decided that he would kill all children of Mathura.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">He sent the female demon Putana to execute his order.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Many children died by sucking her poisonous breasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">But Shree Krishna sucked her breasts so severely that she could not bear the pain and she died at once.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">By this event Konsa could realize that Krishna was his chief foe.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The anger of Konsa was being developed day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">At last he sent Akkrur to Krishna as a messenger.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The messenger delivered the invitation and informed him of the hidden intention of Konsa.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Krishna and His elder brother Balaram accepted it and went to Mathura.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The wrestlers there attacked them and started fighting.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">But the wrestlers could not stay against the two brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">They were defeated and killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">After observing such a terrible defeat, Konsa overwhelmed with grief and anger failed to differentiate between good and evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">He, then, ordered to chain his father Ugrasen, Basudeva and Nanda who were present on the wrestling ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Hearing such an order Krishna and his brother Balaram delayed no more.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">They jumped upon the platform at once and fell down upon Konsa to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Pulling his hair, they fell him to the ground and killed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The two brothers made Deboki, Basudeva and others free and Ugrasen was rethroned as the king of Mathura.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Hence from Sri Krishna and Balarama began to live with his parents at Mathura.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">People were not in peace even the oppressive king Konsa had been killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">After his death his father-in-law Jarasandha got angry against Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">He attacked Mathura with a large troop to take the revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">But unfortunately he was defeated and captured with all his soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The two brothers Krishna and Balaram fought with their divine weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">When Jarasandha was captured, Balaram was going to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">But Krishna on his own mercy released him.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Jarasandha was ashamed of this release.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">He did not forget the disgrace of his defeat.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">So he attacked Mathura for seven times.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Later on Jarasandha was killed by Bhima at the decision of Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Then it was the enrolement of Shishupal.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Bhisma offered some presents to Krishna as the prize of a best man in Rajsuya (the greatest offerings of horses to the fire god to declare the king's sovereignty) performed by Yodhisthira.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Shishupal, the king of Chedi, personally felt jealous for this occasion and he began to speak ill of Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Still then Shree Krishna forgave one hundred crimes as it was promised by Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">When his crime exceeded the number Shree Krishna did not spare him.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He then beheaded Shishupal with his wheel shaped missile.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Though some oppressive kings like Konsa, Jarasandha, Shishupal and their other followers were killed, many other selfish, greedy and oppressive kings were still alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Among them Dhritarastra and his hundred sons like Duryodhana were most powerful and they were engaged with most disreputable work of occupying the sovereign states.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Pandu and Dhritarastra were two brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Dhritarastra was a born blind man, so his younger brother ascended the throne.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">After the death of Pandu, his five sons, the Pandavas were the legal heirs of the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">But without judgement and not daring right and wrong, Dhritarastra supported his sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Failing to do any harm to the Pandavas he divided the kingdom into two parts and distributed them between Duryodhan and Yodisthira.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Indraprastha became the new capital city of the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Duryodhan failed to satisfy himself being the owner of half of a kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">He wanted to be the lord of the whole.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">So he arranged a gambling like a dice play with the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">In that game the Pandavas were wrongly defeated and they lost their kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">They were sent to a forest for living twelve years and one year for living at an unknown place as the condition of gambling was decided before.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The Pandavas were very religious minded.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">After completion of their pledge they came back and wanted to have their state back from Duryodhana.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">But greedy Duryodhana did not agree to return them their soil even the point of a needle in thickness.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The Pandavas became anxious.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">They wanted to get suggestions from Krishna because they had a good relation with Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Besides this, Arjuna was His nearest friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Krishna knew Duryodhana's destructive design.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">So he met with Duryodhana to solve all probelms by consultation.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">But His attempts failed due to rigid decision of Duryodhan.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">So there arose the question of battle between the Kourabas and the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The battle was held at the place of Kuruksmetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">A terrible fighting took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Many people, many kings and many warriors from both sides were killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">After severe fighting the Pandavas conquered and regained their kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">They established their own supremacy performing Aswamedh, a royal oblation.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">To establish a religious state is the glorious achievement of Shree Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">His immortal speeches which he delivered on the battlefield are published in the sacred book known as Shreemath Bhagabath Geeta.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">On the battlefield of Kuruksmetra, Arjuna, the chief of Pandavas army asked his charioteer Krishna before beginning the battle, In this battle my relatives, grandfather Bhisma, teacher Dronacharya and other respectable persons would be killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Besides, many kings with their family members from both sides and soldiers would be killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">It will be a great loss and unworthy actions for the country and nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">It must be unreligious.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">So I will not fight only for my own happiness of extablishing my right.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Shree Krishna inspired Arjuna to take part in the fight and summarised religious activities in this way, See Arjuna, you are a wise man and the best hero, you are trying to be great but the goal of life is to attain God.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">You can reach nearer to God even through fighting.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Surrender unto God.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">He will save you from sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">To a Ksmatriya war is religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">War is a means to establish righteousness.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The ignorance of Arjuna was thus removed at this inspiration of Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">He fought and conquered the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The advices of Krishna are the chief principles of Sanatana Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">When the battle of Kuruksmetra was over,Shree Krishna returned to Dwaraka.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">He ruled Dwaraka for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">When Balarama gave up his body in meditation, Shree Krishna also decided to leave the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">As He decided, He entered into a forest and sat under a banyan tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">A hunter, whose name was Jara, shot an arrow from a distant place on the foot of Shree Krishna as he took Him to be a deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The arrow pierced Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Thus Shree Krishna closed His earthly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Soul is imperishable and pervading.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">None can destroy it.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Shreemad Bhagath Geeta 2/17 As the soul is eternal it has no birth or death though it changes the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">When unreligious activities are stronger, Krishna descends on the earth to save the honest and destroy the demons and establish religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Shreemad Bhagath Geeta (-4/7-8) At the time of death he who remembers Me, of course, he gets Me when he gives up his body Long ago in this subcontinent there was a remarkable time in our political life when Shankaracharya appeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The empire of Gupta came to an end three centuries before then.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The normal life of the subcontinent was disordered by the attack of the Huns.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Religious lives were thrown into confusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The Jains and Buddhists were submerged in various superstitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The glory of Hinduism had been polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">In such a critical moment Shankaracharya was born at the village Kalari in Kerala province of the Deccan on the fifth lunar day of the bright fort night in the month of Baishakha, 788 A. D.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">His father was Shiva Gura and his mother was Subhadra.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Shiva Gura was a Brahmin well versed in scriptures and a worshipper of Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">In their village there was a temple of Chandra Maulishwar Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">In that temple he used to pray everyday along with his wife to have a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">By the grace of Shiva they obtained a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Shankara is another name of Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">So the parents named their son Shankara after Lord Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Shankara was a genious.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">He was an extra ordinary meritorious boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">What ever he read once he could remembered.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It is said that at the age of five when he took the holy thread, he completed the whole course of the Vedas.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">He became an expert in all subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">His wisdom spread in all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">One day some scholars had seen his horoscope and remarked, The longivity of this boy is short.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">At the age of sixteen or thirty two his life may be diminished.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Mother of Shankara, hearing the news, shed tears.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Shankara then thought, What is the benefit to be chained in illusion of temporary life?.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">He thought to take to asceticism.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">He informed his mother about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">But his mother did not agree because he was the only son of his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Shankara consoled his mother and said, oh mother, I give you words, I must be present beside you at the time of your eternal departure.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">His mother made no objection further.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">He decided to take to asceticism and surrendered himself to the great Yogi Gobindapada.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Gobindapada accepted him, as a disciple.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He attained success in Yoga and theological studies within three years residing in his preceptor's hermitage.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Shankara went to the hermitage of Badarika which was a solitary place in the Himalayas to carry out his preceptor's order.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">There he became very attentive to write the commentaries of the Vedas.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">He completed writing of the book as directed by his preceptor within the age of sixteen.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">There after his new life started as a preceptor.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He began to propagate his religion at the holy place of Baranasi on the northern India.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Local scholars and the philosophers were being defeated to his oratory and unlimited wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">He lifted the idea of nondualism to the common people and said, The Supreme Being is real and the rests are illusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">There was a rumour that once Shankaracharya met with the god Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Mahadeva said to him, Spread the theory of nondualism but before propagation, explain the true scriptures in consultations that people cannot be misguided in devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He preached nondualism in different places of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">There is no difference between living entities and the Supreme Godhead-this is the theory of nondualism.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Shankaracharya founded four monasteries at four boundary places in India.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">They are the monasteries of Sarada at Dwaraka, Gobardhana at Puri, Yoshi at Yotidhama (Badariasrama) and Sringeri at Rameshwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">One day he was busy on teaching in the temple Sringeri.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">All on a sudden he felt that his mother was calling him.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">He gave words to mother at the time of leaving the house that he would be present at the last moment of his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">So he could hear her last call.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Without delay he started towards Kalabari to meet his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">During the last moment of his mother, Sannyasi (sage) Shankaracharya sat beside his mother and sang a song in praise of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">His mother shed tears of joy and departed this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Then he felt the call of the Himalayas and made an adventure towards him.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">His destination was Kedarnath Dhasna in Uttarakhanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">At thirty two Shankara fell into a trance at Kedarnatha and gave up his ghost.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He was alive only for thirty two years.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">By that time he wrote the books entitled Brahma Sutra Vashya, Mohamudgara, Ananda Lahari, Shiva Staba, Gobinda- staka etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Who is your wife and son ?</sent>
				<sent id ="178">This varied world is an illusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Where have you come from and who are you ?</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Think and find out the answer.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">This is the essence of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Life is, as if, a drop of water on a lotus leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Know that diseases have seized the body like a poisonous snake.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The world is bewildered in sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Days, nights, evenings, dawns, dews, summers run after one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Thus time destroys our life time.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Yet man cannot give up hope.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">A man, as long as he can earn, he is surrounded by his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">In old age, when his body becomes unfit none asks his woe.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Shree Chaitanya Deva was born at Nabadwip Dhama (Nadia) in a Brahmin family on the 18th February of 1486 A.D. It was a lunar day of full moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">His father's name was Pundit Jagannath Misra and that of his mother was Shachi Devi.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The paternal residential house of Jagannath Misra was at the southern village in Sylhet district.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He came to Nadia for receiving education.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He married Shachi Devi, a daughter of Nilambar Chakravarty and remained there permanently.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Jagannath Misra was a pious and peace loving man.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Shachi Devi was also a devoted woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">But their conjugal life was not happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Because they had a bitter experience.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Their eight daughters met an immatured death one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">At last they had a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He was Bishwarupa who was elder than Nimai.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">In youth he has taken to asceticism.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Nimai was then ten years old and at that time his father Jagannath Misra died.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">In boyhood Nimai was restless.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">So his mother always thought of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">He studied in the school of Pundit Gangadasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He was very meritorious and very beautiful to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Though he was restless, he was a genius.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">He learned grammar, the smriti, the art of rhetoric and ethics within a very short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">At the age of sixteen he was known to all as a Pundit (scholar).</sent>
				<sent id ="211">He opened a Sanskrit school and began to teach.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Soon his fame spread in all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Shachi Devi, mother of Nimai Pundit arranged his marriage without dowry with Laksmi Devi who had a good sign on her face and she was a daughter of Ballavacharya.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">His mother did not like the dowry system.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">So she disallowed it.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">That Nimai Pundit was a genius was proved in a single incident of his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Keshab Misra, an eminent Kashmiri scholar in scriptures arrived at Nadia defeating many learned persons in debate in different places like Kashi, Kanchi, Drabira, Nalanda etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Here he addressed the scholars with pride, Either participate in debate or give me a winner's certificate.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The scholarly society of Nadia got frightened at this challenge but Nimai Pundit faced the world famous Pundit's challenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Keshab Misra recited a hundreds of own made verses for explanation.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Nimai without hesitation made a successful criticism of those verses.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Then Nimai became very popular with all.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">After some days Nimai travelled to East Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">At the end of journey he returned home and came to know that his wife died by snake bite.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">He was over- whelmed with grief at this incident and lost the attraction of domestic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Shachi Devi rearranged his marriage with Vishnupriya, a daughter of Sanatana Pundit.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">But slowly Nimai's intetest for religion grew stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Nimai enjoyed a happy domestie life for some years.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">There after he went to Gaya to offer ball of rice for his father's salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">He was initiated to Ishwarpuri there and came back being changed into a new man.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">He had been no more a secular, a beloved professor for the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">He changed into a great lover of Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Worshippers of Nadia gathered at the yard of Nimai's house and began to sing Nam Kirtan praise of Shree Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Shreebasa, Gadadhara, Mukunda, Advaitacharya all were his councillors.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">One day he was intoxicated in loving of Godhead Krishna at the premises of Shreebasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">He met with Nityananda at the house of Nandan Acharya.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Nityananda became the chief councillor.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">He introduced a new religion of loving devotion (devotion of love) in Nadia through Nityananda and Haridasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Primarily some reactions were created in Nadia.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">But gradually he crossed over all obstacles.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Most of the people of Nadia like Jagai, Madhai and the Kazi could realize their mistake at the loving forgiveness of Shree Chaitanya and Nityananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">They became respectful for his loving devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Thus the number of devotees increased to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Few days later Shree Chaitanya gave up his domestic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">He left his mother, wife and devotees at a midnight of the month of Magha.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">He arrived at Katwa and was being initiated in Sannyasa religion to Keshab Bharati.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The new sage was named Shree Krishna Chaitanya, in brief Shree Chaitanya.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">He became very busy to visit Brindaban.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Some followers tried their best to back him home but on their requests he attended only at the house of Advaitacharya.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">He, there met with his mother Shachi Devi.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">On his mother's request he used to live at Nilachal.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">The place was not very far from his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">He maintained a regular transaction with his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">He visited Puri, the Deccan and Brindaban for circulation (preaching ) of his loving devotion practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The scholars of Vishnu worshippers like Shreerupa, Sanatana, Raghunath Vatta, Raghunath Das, Shreejiba, Gopal Vatta joined with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">He also circulated his religious practice at Kashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Last eighteen years of his life he spent at Nilachal.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">At that time he became unconscious hearing the praise worthy songs of Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">He walked on the roads of Shree Ksmetra (Puri) saying, Where is Krishna ?</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Please, give me a look.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">In 1533 A.D. one day, on the month of Ashara, Shree Chaitanya entered into the temple of Jagannath Deva being overwhelmed with supernal emotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The door of the temple was suddenly closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">All his devotees were outside the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">When the door was opened they did not find their Prabhu (lord).</sent>
				<sent id ="265">He became invisible.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The devotees realized thatv Shree Chaitanya had been vanished into the body of Jagannath Deva.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Advices of Shree Chaitanya.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Those who worship Shree Krishna are superiors, a non devotee is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">There is no question of caste or hierarchy in worshipping Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Being a worshipper of Visnu you would be prideless.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Respect all creatures as Krishna is seated on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">In eating, lying and awaking always think of Krishna and chant Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare Hare Rama Hare Rama Rama Rama Hare Hare.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">It was the Bengali year, The pious Rani decided to visit Kashidhama in order to meet Narayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Twenty five boats were made ready to carry her com panions, food and other necessary things.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The day was fixed for the pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">The queen received a divine command from Ma Kali through a dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">You need not go to Kashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Establish my statue at Vagirathi.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Manage to worship and offer food in favour of me.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Through that statue I shall reveal there and accept your worship and offering.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Having received that divine command Rani distributed all the things and articles among the Brahmins and the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">She bought a plot of land with the collected money.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">She built a mandir there.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">This charitable, generous and virtuous lady is known as Rani Rashmoni.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Rani Rashmoni was born at Kona village on Wednesday, the llth Aswin, in 1200 Bengali year.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The village is situated on the eastern side of the Ganzes and close to Halisahar.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Her father's name was Hare Krishna Das and that of her mother was Rampriya Dashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Rashmoni came, of a poor family.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Her father's profession was house building and cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">After her birth she was named Rani by her mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Later on, she was known as Rashmoni.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">The villagers joined two of her names and she was known as Rani Rashmoni.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Rani Rashmoni was married to a Jaminder named Rajchandra on 8th Baishak in 1211 Bengali year.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Her name Rani was thus became meaningful.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Rajchandra was quite gentle and amiable.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">He was honest, sincere and dutiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">His wife Rani Rashmoni was an intelligent and well behaved woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The union of the two was unique and they helped each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">In 1817 Rajchandra's father Pritiram died and he (R) became the Jamindar.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">He inherited much money amounting to Tk. six lucs and a half and huge amount of immovable property.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">With that amount of money he established a number of charitable institutions for the welfare of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">A serious flood hit West Bengal in A large number of people became homeless and shelterless.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">The sufferings of the people knew no bounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Rani Rashmoni spent a heavy amount of money for their food and building their houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">In that year her father died.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Rani went to the bank of the Ganges to celebrate Chaturthi.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The ghat was dusty and dangerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">The road leads to the ghat was not at all fit for use.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">After returning from that place, Rani requested her husband to build the ghat and road pucca.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Within a few days Rajchandra built the ghat and the road which is known as Babu ghat and Babu road.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">He also built another ghat beside the Ganzes at Ahiritola.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">At Niintala he built houses for the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">He appointed doctors and nurses for serving the dying people i.e. the pilgrims who go to the Ganzes on a holy occasion.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Rani gave birth to four daughters.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">They were Padmamoni, Kumari, Karuna and Yogodamba.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">She also gave birth to a dead male child.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Her married life did not last long.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">In 1243, at the age of 49 Rajchandra died of Swanas.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Rani was greatly shocked at the death of her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">She spent three days and nights starving.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">She completed Shraddah spending a lot of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">She donated the Brahmins money equal to the weight of her body.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">After the death of her husband, though she had to look after the worldy affairs, she was always careful and attentive performing the religious rites.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">She attended daily pujas and prayers.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">She often arranged religious functions in a befitting manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">In 1245 Rani wished to move Yagannath Deva on the occasion of Rathjatra through the streets of Calcutta placing her on a chariot built by silver.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Her son-in- law Mathura Mohan Babu arranged that journey.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">It cost 1,22,115/- ( one lac, twenty two thousand, one hundred and fifteen) taka.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">On the day of Rathjatra a procession was arranged.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Rani and all the members of her family took part in that procession.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Once Rani visited the holy place named Yagannath Khetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The roads of that place were not at all fit for use.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">So she built roads for the pilgrims.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">She also supplied three crowns made of jewel for the three idols - Yagannath, Balaram and Suvadra when she visited Purusuttam Khetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Her important achievement is to stop the tax on fishery in the Ganzes.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Once the Government introduced the system of paying taxes on fishery in the Ganges.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">At this fishermen fell in troubles.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">They came to Rashmoni and requested her to help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Rani came forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">She offered ten thousand taka to the Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">and got an agreement to the effect that she would be able to use water from Musuri to Metiaburaj area for her own purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Then she marked her area extending rope or cables and stopped the ships and boats plying through the area.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">The Govt. opposed this.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Rani then informed them that if ships and boats are allowed to ply, the fish would leave the place which would be harmful for the fishermen.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">At this the Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">made compromise with her, returned her money and cancelled paying taxes on fishery.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Rani Rashmoni looked after her subjects like her sons and daughters.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">She helped many people of Makimpur from the oppression of Nilkar officials.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">She dug Tonar canal which joined the Madhumati and the Nabaganga.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">She is known for the establishment of a number of markets.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Sonai, Beliaghata and Bhabanipur are a few of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">She also built Kalighat and earned a good name.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Her highest glory rests on the establishment of a Mandir at Daksmineswar.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">She donated the Mandir and the adjoining property in the name of her Gurudeba.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Ramkumar was appointed as the Brahmin of that Mandir.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">On the fixed date the puja ceremony began.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">After the death of Ramkumar his younger brother Shree RamKrishna became the Brahmin of Daksmineswar mandir.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Rani got herself associated in offering prayers and observing religious rites in full attention.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">At last in 1861 she gave away all her money and property through a deed of gift on February, the 18th for the cause of humanity and died next day.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Shree Harichand Thakur was born at Saflidanga of Gopalgonj on the thirteenth lunar day of the dark fortnight in the month of Falgoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">His father's name was Yoshomanta Thakur and that of his mother was Annapurna Devi.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Yoshomanta was a Brahmin in origin of Mithila but on religious side he was a pure Visnu worshipper.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Always the Vaishnabas assembled at his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Harichand was the second son of Yoshomanta Thakur.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">His other brothers were Vaishnaba Das, Gauri Das and Swarupa Das.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">They were all Vaishnabas.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Harichand Thakur was a thoughtful man from his boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">He studied at school for a few months.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">But he had the alphabetic and mathematical ideas within a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">He was very meritorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">But he could not find pleasure confining himself in a fixed syllabus of the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Nature enticed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">He came down on the field leaving his school behind.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">He mixed with the cow boys and grazed the cattle and played with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">He had a beautiful physic and a melodious voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Sometimes he sang his heart out and sometimes he made others delighted singing devotional songs.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">He was very favourite to the shepherd boys.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">They called him the king of the cow boys.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">There were many popular stories about his miracles.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Among the cow boys Broja, Natu and Bishwanatha were very close with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">One day Bishwanatha could not go to the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Natu informed Thakur that Bishwanatha was attacked with Cholera.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Harichand Thakur did not delay.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">He at once went to see.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Bishwanatha accompanied by his other friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Mother of Bishwanatha told him weeping, Hari, Bishwa will not live any more, probably he will leave us today.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Then Harichand said to her, I have come to purchase your son Bishwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Saying so he then pulled up him holding his hands and said again, Let us go to the grazing field.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">As he pulled him, Bishwa woke up and went with him in the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">All were astonished at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Harichand went to the field accompanied with Bishwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">This miraculous action spread out every where.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">The sick people began to assemble group by group before him to be cured.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">His treatment policy was not based on systematic processes of medical science.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">He cured them by divine treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Shree Harichand Thakur did not circulate any new doctrine.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">He flowed the stream of loving devotion applied by Shreemon Mahaprabhu in its simple course.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">110 Hindu Religion Studies The way of this simple devotion is Matuaism.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">His followers were called Matua.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Matua means intoxication.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">He who is intoxicated is called a Matua.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The other says that he is a Matua who has an opinion.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">He is a Matua who has faith in God, respects on respectable persons and Brahmins and deep attachment in love.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">The community of Matu is the follower of nondualism founded by Shankara.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">To sing in praise of God is their way.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">They do believe that salvation will come through devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">The root of this devotional process founded by Thakur Shree Harichand is to acquire humanity, self progress and devotion in human welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">The Matuaism has been established upon three pillars.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">They are truth, love and purity.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">The aim of devotion is to find the truth and to attain God.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Love is necessary to attain the Supreme Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Purity is the pre-condition of love.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Love rises in a pure body and mind and loving Hari awakens in the heart of devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">The devotees of Shree Harichand Thakur knew him as an incarnation of Visnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Hari is their praying God.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Their religious faith is that Visnu has descended from time to time.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">They found all the images of Rama Hari, Krishna Hari and Hari Gorachand in Harichand.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">He directed his followers to maintain worldly duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">He himself was a secular.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">In his conjugal life he became a father of two sons and three daughters.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">His sons were Gurucharan and Umacharan.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">After his disappearance Guruchand became the head of the community.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">He inspired the neglected communities to be united and single minded in devotion to Sanatan Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">People from all classes without distinction of caste, creed and colour became followers of Thakur.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Tarak Chandra Sarkar, a devotee of Hari Thakur wrote Hari Lilamrita containing his life history and ideal speeches.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Shree Shree Harichand Thakur died on Wednesday, the 23rd Falgoon of 1284 at the age of sixty six.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">He, who is awakened in divinity dwelling into a house; is definitely a great saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Do the household works properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Do work by hands and utter the name of Lord by mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">This is the Sanatana system and the system is to kill the demons and save the pious.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Rabindranath Tagore, a world famous poet has seen the co-ordinated but unique form of devotions in a devotee in whose life the sports of infinity makes a new holy place for the pilgrims.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">He is Shree Ram Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">The first half of the nineteenth century was a critical moment for this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">British administration was established here.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Western culture and materialism had influenced our national life.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Youths were highly involved in following English culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Consequently they lost faith upon their religions and cultures.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Moreover, those who were religiously conservatives argued among themselves regarding the best system of devotion and the supremacy of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Above all there was difference of opinions in different religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Shree Ram Krishna came among us in such a critical moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Calcutta was then the centre of new western education.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Shree Ram Krishna was born near Calcutta on the 17th February, 1836 A. D. at the village of Kamar pukur in Hoogly district.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">His father was Ksmudirama Chatterjee and mother was Chandra Moni Devi.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Once Ksmudirama visited Gayadhama.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">There he dreamt that Gadadhara, the god of that holy place said, I am gratified at your devotion, earnestness and purity.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Soon I will take birth at your house.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">After some days Chandra Moni gave birth to her fourth child.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Ksmudirama named his new born baby Gadadhara remembering his dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Gadadhara is renowned as Shree Ram Krishna Paramhangsa in later period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">In boyhood Gadadhara was very beautiful to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Always he was in gracious mood.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">He loved nature very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Sometimes natural beauties made him emotional.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">He lost himself when he saw a flock of flying kingstorks in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Going to play the role of Shiva on an open-air stage, when he was in Shiva's costume, he became Shiva himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Devotional songs and chants were dear to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">Gadadhara learned many stories of the Ramayana, the Mahavarata and praise worthy verses orally.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">But he was not attentive to his class lessons.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Gadadhara was changed after his father's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Many a time he spent his times alone on the cremation ground or in a mango garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Sometimes he associated himself with saints and Visnu worshippers and learned devotional songs from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">His elder brother Ramkumar arrived at Calcultta accompanied by Gadadhara to remove their poverty.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Then the temple of Kali was founded by Rani Rasmoni at Daksmineswar.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Ramkumar took the job of the priest of that temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">Gadadhara resided with his brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">Sometimes he was in a trance with meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">He became the priest of the temple after his brother's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">He devoted himself in worshipping of Bhabatarini.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">He sang to his goddess many songs of Ramprasada and Kamalakanta.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">He was overjoyed with a divine spirit uttering Ma again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">One day his luminous mother appeared before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Looking Her divine grace Gadadhara was changed into another man.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">His divine exaltation increased as the days passed.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">The news reached his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">His mother Chandra Moni brought him at Kamarpukur being worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">Slowly Gadadhara became normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Then his mother arranged his marriage with Saradamoni, daughter of Rasna Mukherjee by his direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">His mother was very happy, because Saradamoni was also a worshipper.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">She helped her husband in devotion and performing ceremonial rites of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">After some days Gadadhara came back to Daksmineswar.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">Again he was in a mood of divine exaltation.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">By the end of 1861 Bhairobi Yogeshwari, a divinely elevated woman arrived at Daksmineswar.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">Gadadhara accepted her as his preceptor and attained success in the Tantra practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">Bhairobi declared that Gadadhara was an extraordinary Yogi and an incarnation.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">Then Gadadhara in his devotional life associated himself with Totapuri.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Totapuri initiated him in Sannyasa and named him Shree Ram Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">By her help Shree Ram Krishna devoted himself to know the widespread paths of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">He went through different ways such as Shakta, Vaishnaba, Tantrika, Vedanta etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">Beyond these he also followed the ways of Islam and Christianity and attained success.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">Shree Ram Krishna could realize that God is eternal.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">He is both corporeal and incorporeal.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">Those who worship him through their won religious practices with deep attachment, they can attain God.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">So he uttered from his own realization, Many opinions, many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">In 1875 a new screen was unveiled in his life drama.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Now he was not only lost in himself but also became a people's preceptor too.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">People from all classes began to assemble in groups to hear his speeches.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">The careful attention of the elites was fixed on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">Bijoy Krishna, Pratap Majumder.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">Shivanath Shastri including famous orator Keshab Sen were associated with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">He explained many theories in simple words through stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">Every day his work of mass education was going on through advices and speeches.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">Soon his fame spread among all classes of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">The community of young people gathered around him like their elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">Narendranath Datta was then greatly troubled with suspicion of a clash between east and western cultures.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">He came before Thakur (an incarnation) as a representative of the young class to solve their problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">He was in search of a worshipper who had seen God.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">He asked Shree Ram Krishna whether he had seen God with his own eyes, or not and appealed to him to show God himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">Narendranath was gratified at the grace of Shree Ram Krishna, He could see God and surrendered himself to the lotus feet of Thakur.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">He was the best disciple of Shree Ram Krishna and he was named Swami Bibekananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">The speeches of the great man Shree Ram Krishna were not mere simple words - uttered, but truths of life practised.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">He served the people after the image of Shiva without pride.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">At mid night on the 15th August, 1886 A. D. he fell into trance uttering three times the greatest hymns Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">That was his eternal journey.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">He breathed his last leaving his body in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">Respect your father and love him.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">The world pervading is mother or Ma.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">Mother is universal.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">The religion practised in deceiving mother, motherland and parents is fruitless.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">Mother is a respectable person.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">She is as like as goddess.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">So everyone should look after her as long as she is alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">Distinction of caste can be removed by devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">A worshipper has no caste problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">If a devotee is completely devoted to God, his body, mind and soul everything will be purified.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">If you do your domestic duties, there is no harm.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">But fix your mind on the lotus feet of Godhead and work desiring no fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">A sincere man can go through all religions and may attain God.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">There are many ways to reach Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">As many tenets as many ways to salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">He who holds truth lies on the lap of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">This is a tale of more than one hundred and fifty-years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">It was the month of Sravana of the Bengali year, It was the period of full moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">The Hindu festival of Krishna's swinging (Jhulan Jatra) was going on at every mandir of the Bhaishnabas at Santipura in Nabadipa.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">During such an auspicious hour Bijoy Krishna Goswami was born.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">His father Ananda Kishore Goswam was a faithful devotee.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">His mother Swarnamoyee Devi was also a pious and kindhearted lady.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Bijoy Krishna's primary education started in the village Pathsala (primary school).</sent>
				<sent id ="538">He studied Sanskrit in the Sanskrit Grammar School at Santipura.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">Then he went to Calcutta for higher education and got himself admitted into the Calcutta Sanskrit College.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">He was slow but steady.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">He was quiet, calm and peaceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">He was virtuous and performed the religious rites so whole heartedly that his friends were astonished at his devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">During this time he got married with the eldest daughter of Ramachandra Vaduri at Sikerpura.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">His wife's name was Yogomaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">He read the Bedanta.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">A change of religions belief was found in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">Though he came of a devotional Goswami family, he became the supporter of illusionism.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">He interpreted the Bedanta and supported non-dualism and illusionism.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">After that Bijoy Krishna was admitted in the medical college.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">At that time he, together with a few students formed a council called Hitashancharini.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">It was decided in the meeting of the members of the council that what one would think to be true would try one's best to do that.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">Bijoy Krishna also said that taking holy thread is the sign of caste system.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">Then all his Brahmin classmates left the holy thread and stopped using it.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">At that time he came in touch of the Brahmah society.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">After listening to the lectures of Dabendranath Tagore and Keshob Chandra he got interested to Brahmah society and accepted Brahmah religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">After a few days he came to Santipura.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">The local people of that place and even his own relations got angry with him for accepting Brahmah religion after leaving the holy thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">Then Bijoy Krishna came back to Calcutta.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">The final Medical examination is knocking at the door.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">At the same time he was asked to preach Bhahmah religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">Without considering the bright future of a doctor's life, he took the responsibility of preaching Brahmah religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">He was known as a scriptural teacher of Brahmah society.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">He preached the principles of Brahmah society in different parts of Dhaka, Barisal, Jessore, Khulna and in the different regions of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">At one stage of his preaching he came to Kashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">There he met Trailango Swami who through his inward eye felt in him (B) the embryonic development of the ideas of Hinduism.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">So he whispered something in his ear and said, I am not your teacher, but you will have a teacher in due course.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">Once while he was in the northern India, he was seriously ill.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">But he was mira culously saved by Loknath Brammachary.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">A change came again in the life of Bijoy Krishna about religious belief.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Due to the influence of Loknath Brammachary and Thakur Ram Krishna Bijoy Krishna was changed as Baishnava Goswami.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">At the Akash Ganga hill of Gaya, he met the famous Yoga Brammah Nanda Swami.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">He converted Bijoy Krishna from Brahmah religion and made him a Hindu Yoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">After being converted Bijoy Krishna spent continuous eleven days in samadhi or meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">At last being instructed he went to Kashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">There he took to asceticism to Brammachari Shree Hariharananda Saraswati.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">At this time Bijoy Krishna felt the need of avoiding domestic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">But one day miraculously Guru Bramma Nanda came before him and said, You need not leave domestic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">Your devotion will continue through domestic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">Bijoy Krishna thus left Brahmah society.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">After leaving Brahmah society Bijoy Krishna felt the want of money for maintaining his wife, sons, daughters and disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">During this hour of trouble Loknath Brammachary advised him to arrange namgan and Hari-kirtan (hymn) at Gandaria in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">This would help him to meet his wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">Though he established a hermitage in Dhaka, he often lived in Calcutta.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Once he went to Brindabana with his wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">His wife died of Cholera there.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">Then in 1304 during the month of Fulguna he started for Shreeksmetra, the sports place of Shree-Chaitanya.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">His mother who was an accomplished and virtuous woman once forbade him to go to Shreeksmetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">Because she thought if he would go there it would be harmful for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">His mother's warning did not go in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">He could not return from Shreeksmetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">He met his death there.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">During his stay at Shreeksmetra his name spread far and wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">A large number of people from Puri to Orissa became his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">But his popularity was not tolerated by a group of false religious personalities.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">One day an unknown religious figure gave him a piece of poisonous sweets.</sent>
				<sent id ="596">He considered it to be proshad (kindness) and ate it with regards.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">He soon became unwell.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">His treatment went on.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">But he was not cured.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">At last on Sunday, the 22nd Jaistha of 1306 this virtuous and guru Bijoy Krishna Goswami died.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">Well, see through your own vision that all are dancing in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">The conversation which is going on is surely a wave of dance, is n't it ?</sent>
				<sent id ="603">The plant cannot come out from seeds if they have no life force inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">A wave cannot be created in a pool of water if the wind does not move it.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">There are waves in creation, existence and destruction and it can be found everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">These waves are called dancing.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">Moreover, you see that there is a relation between dancing and spiritualism.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">If we can work and go on this ideology, co- operation must be implemented.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">These waves of dancing would become calm and still later on, over crossing its calmness.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">Every one needs to reach the root from where all material possessions come out what do you say ?</sent>
				<sent id ="611">The dancing artist Udoy Sankar became astonished listening to such a beautiful explanation about the science and art of dancing.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">He said to other artists, Wel1, our mother is not well educated in art of dancing, but how nicely she explained dancing.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">I have heard no such a lucid, simple and beautiful explanation about the art of dancing before.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">I owe to my mother for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">Do you know who the mother is ?</sent>
				<sent id ="616">She is Ma Anandamoyee.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">The village Khewra in Bangladesh is situated in the district of Brahmanbariya.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">Bipin Bihari Bhattacharya and his wife Moksmada Sundari lived there.</sent>
				<sent id ="619">They were both profoundly devouts and intensely devoted to truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">They passed their days happily in worshipping their domestic god Narayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">Bipin Bihari resided in his maternal uncle's residence at Khewra but his paternal residence was at Bidyakut.</sent>
				<sent id ="622">Ma Anandamoyee is the daughter of this Bipin Bihari Bhattacharya and Moksmada Sundari.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">She was born on the 30 April in 1896 A. D. The couple was very happy having a moon faced daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="624">Moksmada Sundari named her Nirmala Sundari.</sent>
				<sent id ="625">Besides she had another five names such as, Teerthabasini.</sent>
				<sent id ="626">Daksmayani, Gajaganga, Bimala and Kamala.</sent>
				<sent id ="627">Nirmala was very cheerful and heart- throbbing from her chilhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="628">All without distinction of caste, creed and age loved that extraordinary beautiful girl with deep affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="629">Sports had been started from the begining of her life.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">Her education was started in a primary school at the village.</sent>
				<sent id ="631">She was not a regular student but miraculously she could realize her lessons regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="632">One day a school Inspector came to visit the school and she was asked to recite a poem from her memory.</sent>
				<sent id ="633">She did it without making any mistake.</sent>
				<sent id ="634">The teacher and the Inspector became very pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="635">Her general education did not proceed far.</sent>
				<sent id ="636">A divine spirit like goddess Durga appeared in her appearance.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">Always she was absorbed in deep delight.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">She was also absorbed in singing praise of God Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">Thus she came up her age .</sent>
				<sent id ="640">It was a new day in the life of Nirmala Sundari when she was married at the age of fourteen.</sent>
				<sent id ="641">The marriage was settled with Ramani Mohan Chakravarty who was a resident of Atpara in Vickrampore on the 25th Magha, Nirmala named her husband as Bholanath after their marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="642">Her domestic life began with full swing and she began to learn the skill of performing all kinds of household works and duties from her brother and sister-in-law.</sent>
				<sent id ="643">In 1324 Nirmala arrived at Bajitpur to her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="644">Bholanath was an employee of a settlement office.</sent>
				<sent id ="645">Gradually divinity had been bloomed on her appearance.</sent>
				<sent id ="646">She became very excited in loving devotion of Krishna on hearing praiseworthy songs of Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="647">Once chanting was arranged at the house of Bhudev Chandra Bose, Nirmala Sundari was present there.</sent>
				<sent id ="648">When the chanting teams began praising songs, Nirmala became excited.</sent>
				<sent id ="649">Her heart was diluted in sound wave of the name of God Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="650">She fell down on the ground out of spiritual excitement and became senseless.</sent>
				<sent id ="651">But she got cured slowly on hearing the praiseworthy songs.</sent>
				<sent id ="652">The news spread out at every nook and corner of Bajitpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="653">Neighbours and local people advised Ramanimohan to call in a good physician or exorcist for his wife's treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="654">An exorcist was appointed by Ramanimohan.</sent>
				<sent id ="655">He came before Nirmala.</sent>
				<sent id ="656">But the exorcist became senseless observing the supernatural attitude of Nirmala Sundari.</sent>
				<sent id ="657">When he got his sense back he said, We are unable to treat such a sick person.</sent>
				<sent id ="658">This mother is goddess incarnate.</sent>
				<sent id ="659">Doctor Mahendra Nandi also remarked that it was not the symptom of a disease, but it was a high level thought.</sent>
				<sent id ="660">Thus Nirmala Sundari was enlighted with mass light.</sent>
				<sent id ="661">In 1329 in a lunar day of the full moon, she was unworldly by the grace of divinity.</sent>
				<sent id ="662">She became ever cheerful day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="663">Bholanath was appointed as a superintendent of Nawab garden and arrived at Shahbag of Dhaka in 1924 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="664">Motherly nature displayed on Nirmala when she arrived at Shahbag.</sent>
				<sent id ="665">She became the mother of Shahbag as well as the mother of Dhaka, Her supernatural activities were being developed during that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="666">When Ma resided at Bajitpur, saw a successful tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="667">It is said that once a divine light came out from that successful tree which was vanished (to the body of Kali).</sent>
				<sent id ="668">There was no temple there.</sent>
				<sent id ="669">Sumeruban, a saint established a temple in the name of Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="670">There was a banyan tree beside this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="671">On the first night Ma and Bholanath visited the temple holding a lamp.</sent>
				<sent id ="672">There were no dwelling houses there.</sent>
				<sent id ="673">A seat of Pancha Mundi belonged to that temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="674">Bholanath and his niece Srima then arrived at Siddeswari.</sent>
				<sent id ="675">Ma found a hole on the northern side of the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="676">Later on, Ma sat down facing the south and automatically hymns came out through her month.</sent>
				<sent id ="677">Her face was enlighted with divine light.</sent>
				<sent id ="678">Ma being bewildered became ever cheerful in spiritual excitement.</sent>
				<sent id ="679">Observing her divine beauty her niece uttered spontaniously, O Anandamoyee Ma.</sent>
				<sent id ="680">Srima said to Bholanath, From today we shall call her not only our Ma but also Anandamoyee Ma.</sent>
				<sent id ="681">The first house for her was built at Siddeswari during the month of March in 1926.</sent>
				<sent id ="682">This was the beginning of her hermitage which was just behind Siddeswari mandir.</sent>
				<sent id ="683">The Basanti puja was celebrated that year for the first time.</sent>
				<sent id ="684">She stayed in Dhaka for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="685">One day she decided to leave Dhaka for an indefinite destination.</sent>
				<sent id ="686">In the month of June, 1932 Ma Anandomayee, Bholanath and his niece arrived at Deradune.</sent>
				<sent id ="687">Her sports place was transferred to North India from Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="688">A good number of families came in close touch with her and became amazed at her wonderful activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="689">Her name spread all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="690">Ma Anandamoyee travelled all over India for the spiritual enhancement of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="691">She revived many ancient holy places including Naimisarannya which was the abode of thousand saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="692">She established a number of Mandirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="693">She also built imags of deities for performing puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="694">She built 25 hermitages all over India.</sent>
				<sent id ="695">In Bangladesh there are two hermitages: one is in Ramna and another is in Khewra.</sent>
				<sent id ="696">With all these she paved the way for revival of Sanatana Dharma in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="697">Ma Anandamoyee died on August 29, She was buried at the hermitage , Kanakhala The place where you are and the position you hold is negligible but doing or performing duties is important.</sent>
				<sent id ="698">This earth is for God (Narayan); I atn merely a server.</sent>
				<sent id ="699">Take names, remember names of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="700">Sing His name silently in every breath.</sent>
				<sent id ="701">Worship Hari and Worship Narayana.There is no other way but to worship Hari or Narayana.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
