<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-hind-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:05.992</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">320</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3795</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1293</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t90">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">By the word tattwa we understand the knowledge of the selected matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">So by dharma-tattwa we understand the knowledge of a religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">It includes what a religion is; its characteristics or principles; why we should follow the religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Name the above verse we know the word dharma comes from the verb dharan .</sent>
				<sent id ="5">A religion is specially preserving the creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The one that does not preserve is not a religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The qualities of any object is the example of its existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">As an example, the nature of fire is heat and light.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">If heat and light are lost, we find no fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">In the same way man's nature is his humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">If his humanity is lost, he would not be treated as a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In the Hindu scriptures five things have been mentioned as the common characteristics of religion or humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">They are: hating none, (ii) stealing nothing; (iii) practising self-control, (iv) becoming virtuous and holy; and true to one's word or vow.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The religion protects those who are pious and virtuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Man is ruined, if there is no religion of his own.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">According to the Baishesik philosophy, Jotohovudoya nishreyasiddhi So Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">This means which refers to worldly welfare (e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">attaining wealth, honour etc.) as well as eternal emancipation or salvation of the soul is called a religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">God Himself is the root of religion, Dharmomulo hi Vagoban; Sarbobedomayo Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">There is God.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He is one and without a second.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">He is the invisible immortal guiding soul of all created beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Everything has been created out of Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">So He is also the root of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Hinduism accepts the diversity of religious practices according to competency.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Some pray to formless God and some pray to gods having no forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Shree Krishna said in the Shreemath Bhagabath Geeta - Je jatha mang propoddyante Tangsthathaiva Vajamyaham I Momo bartanubartantay manusya Partho Sarbasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">As any one surrenders as his own way I reward accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">That means the way the worshipper worships, I do good to him accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">People follow me in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Shree Ram Krishna Paramhangsa Dev also said many minds, many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Though worshipping different gods and goddesses are prevelant in Hindu religion, it is not a religion of many Gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">It is the assemblage of many in one or one in many.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">It believes in special oneness of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The above subject matter has been discussed in the peace part of the Mahavarata.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Following the truth is the religion of an honest man, we can realize about Apaddharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The eternal religion (Sanatan dharma) also follows it Truth is beauty; beauty is truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">But this scriptural truth cannot be followed all the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Let us hear a story of Apaddharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Once a passer by was passing through a forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Suddenly a gang of dacoits drove him.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">He ran to save his life and took shelter in a hermitage of a hermit in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The hermit came to know of the incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">After a while the dacoits entered into the hut and asked the hermit about the passer by.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">If the hermit would have spoken the truth they would have found the man out and killed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Again if he did not speak the truth he would do a sinful act for telling a lie.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">So thinking, the hermit kept silent.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">They ultimately found the man out, killed him, took his wealth and went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">At the end misfortune came and the hermit suffered much for the cause of killing a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">If he would tell a lie, the dacoits would believe him and leave the place and as a result the man would be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">But he did not do it for the fear of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">He should save the life of a helpless and shelterless man telling even a lie.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">This is an example of Apaddharma course that may be adopted in time of danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Observing and maintaining some beliefs, some rituals and attending some ceremonies are religion for man.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The virtuous are to believe that God is at the root of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">He is all powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">There is no God but God.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Observing religious rituals, a man has to be pure in body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Mental purity is more important than physical one.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">He is also to attend prescribed daily prayer to God with full devotion and sincerity of purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Lord Vivekananda has advised us to pray to God thinking His presence in the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He said, He who loves His creations loves and serves God.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The word Eswar has been formed from a verbal root Es with the suffise of boros.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The meaning of Eswar is powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">He is not an ordinary powerful being.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He is all powerful, supreme controller and the greatest.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">He is everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">This Eswar is the creator, the defender and the annihilator.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">His appearance is endless, boundless and eternal.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">To the wise He is the Brahma, to a Yogi He is the great soul or spirit, again to a devotee He is Vagoban.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Brahma means the largest.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">He nourishes and defends all living creatures and things of the whole universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">He is eternal, sacred, all knowing, luminous, free, formless, immanent and all powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">He is regarded as being universal and forming the elemental matter from which everything emerged.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He thus became fully personalized under the name of Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">As Brahma is omni-present, none can see him.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">He stays in the living beings as souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Soul is eternal and formless.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">It does not have birth and death.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Though bodies are perished, souls do not have any change.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">A soul passes from one body to another through death.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">It cannot be seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">It can be felt only.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He who is Brahma is the soul of the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Again, when this Brahma controls everyone, He becomes God or the Supreme Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">To the wise God is all powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">When God comes incarnate, man can see him directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">He is endless and boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">He has no change.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He is the first cause of the universe-Providence.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">He has come into being out of Himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">He is selfborn.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">He is eternal, purified and most sacred.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">He rewards or punishes everyone for any action.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">One gets reward or punishment according to one's deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">God may have forms or without forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">When God is imagined as the Supreme Lord of all wealth, strength or heroism, fame, prosperity or Good luck, wisdom and asceticism, He is then known as Vagoban.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Nature of Vagoban To a devotee God is known as Vagoban.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Vagoban is admiring.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He is endlessly virtuous and the cause for endless forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He is delightful and joyful.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He loves sports.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Vagoban sometimes takes forms and meets his devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The devotees can see the form they desire and the mood they feel in Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Where is God?</sent>
				<sent id ="106">God is present everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The poet feels His existence in all the things.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He has said, You are with fire, wind, air, In blue sky, hills and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">You are also with trees and creeping plants, With clouds, the sun, the moon and stars Again God lies in the hearts and heads of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">He is all knowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">He controls our thinking and all deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">God is the soul of our souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">We need not go far for His association.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He lives in the hearts of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">So, Rabindranath prays, Oh God !</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Let my mind widen.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">To attain eternal bliss or salvation is the greatest blessing in a man's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The sages of different ages have formulated a number of ways to have the eternal bliss.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Karma, Gyana and Vaktiyoga are different ways to achieve salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He who applies himself well to one of these paths achieves success.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">What is done is known as Karma or work.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">But the work that we do for attaining salvation is called Karmayoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This is called actions not actuated by any desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The doer simply considers all the works meant for God.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Everything belongs to God and everything should be employed in the service of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The doer thinks that God is getting everything done by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Such actions are called Niskama Karma (not actuated by any gainful motive).</sent>
				<sent id ="128">This work has three characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Giving up the results of activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Giving up the dominative sensitiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Surrendering the results unto the Supreme God.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">This is quite opposite to Niskama Karma.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">This work has three characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The doer thinks the work of his own.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The work is performed by one for oneself.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">In other words, I do my own work.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The person is the owner of enjoying the fruits of his activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Here the doer has dominative sensitiveness for his action and he forgets God.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">For this he has to suffer for his actions.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">In the Shreemath Bhagabath Geeta Shree Krishna has said this type of actions cannot create ties or relationship with God.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">This creates only lust.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Man hankers for lust only.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">But when man's works are not actuated by any desire or motive and he thinks the work is performed as a point of duty towards God or mankind is regarded as the best or ideal karma (Niskama Karma).</sent>
				<sent id ="144">With this type of work man can get eternal bliss or salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">It is the lust not the work that chains us.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Praying God through wisdom is known as Gyanayoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The word Gyana means knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Knowing about this earth through spiritual knowledge refers to wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">T here are six ways to gain wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">To bend and touch a teacher's feet in belief that he will enlighten you from your ignorance.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Enquiring something about divinity to a teacher by his disciple.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">To have a special attention for the teacher and do according to the teacher's will.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Through service, the devotee becomes worthy to attain knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">This refers to the teachings of the scripture and the teacher (Guru).</sent>
				<sent id ="155">To believe and follow the advice of the both is the first stage of receiving knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">It demands full devotion and concentration of mind without any attraction for contrary things.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">To be dutiful and careful for the work to be done is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">(vi) Insdriosangjam : (Continence/restraint of the desire and passions) One has to subdue all his desires and passions to gain wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Grief and illusions are removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">All sins are destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">A wise man is indifferentt to the results of his activities, All do not have rights for the cultivation of knowledge or wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The ignorant, the disloyal and the doubtful are not fit for acquiring wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Knowledge is most sacred.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Of the different processes for realization of the Absolute Truth, Vaktiyoga, devotion or piety, is the highest, We know that a living entity is not the material body; he is a spiritual spark.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">And the Absolute Truth (God) is the spiritual whole.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">In the Narodiyo Vaktisutraya it has been said that the earnest love and affection between God and devotee is called Vakti.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The Shandilyasutra also says, piety means deep attachment and surrender to the feet of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">A devotee must be free from desires and wishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">His desires and wishes should be devoted to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">A devotee just fixes his mind upon the supreme personality of Godhead and performs all the devices of prayers to please Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">When the devotees can devote themselves in this manner, they will feel Vakti in their mind without a doubt.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He will then feel the existence of Vagoban in all created beings: He knows though God accepts prayers through idols.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He exists everywhere and in all living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He is the real devotee who can realize His presence in all living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Such devotees can do good for mankind and get favour from God Himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">From the above discussion we understand that Karma (work), Gyana (cultivation of knowledge) and Vakti (devotion ) are quite important to approach the Divine.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">What is work is knowledge and what is knowledge is devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Knowledge comes from work free of desire and piety or devotion grows in the perfection of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Another birth means another life or existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The philosophical thinking of this another life is the doctrine of re-birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">In this regard Sri Krishna speaks to Arjuna in Shreemath Bhagabath Geeta- Bahumi may byatitany janmani taba charjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Tanyahong Beda Sarbani na thwang bettha parantopa.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The supreme personality of Godhead said : Many many births both you and I have passed.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">I can remember all of them, but you cannot.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Through this statement we understand that Lord Krishna, apart from being the pilot of the chariot of Arjuna, His friend and devotee, He knew everything and he was the supreme personality of Godhead.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He is everlasting and eternal.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">When it is said that Arjuna was born many times, it can be assumed that he has also some everlasting things which had not been destroyed through a number of births and deaths.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">In scriptural language that thing is soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The embodied soul is the part of the supreme one.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The embodied soul like the supreme one is permanent and eternal.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">For getting eternal bliss (or Moksholav) the embodied soul changes its bodies to new ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">And unless it gets eternal bliss, the process of changing bodies continues.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">There lies a close relationship between bodies and souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Souls have expeditions with bodies and again bodies are alive with souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Bodies without souls are inanimate and souls without bodies are inactive.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">But the body that adopts the soul is perishable or mortal.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The body is formed of five vital elements- earth, water, light, air, and the sky or space.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">This body is perishable.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">In the Shreemath Bhagabath Geeta we find Jatasya hi dhrubo mrittyo.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This means the man who is born is sure to meet death.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">But the soul that the body adopted is eternal.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">That eternal soul leaves from one body to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Dhrubbang janma mrittasya cha- this means the man who is dead is sure to have re-birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">To eternal soul death means changing of bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">In The Shreemath Bhagabath Geeta it has been said that it is an easy task for soul to leave the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Soul leaves the old body as easily as it faces a change of boyhood, youth and old age.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Just as a person puts on new garments, giving up old ones, the soul also accepts new material bodies, giving up the old and useless ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">This process is known as the doctrine of re-birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">There lies a close connection between the Law of Karma and that of re-birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">One of the important beliefs of Hindu Religion is the law of Karma or Action.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">It means that every good thought, word or deed begets a similar reaction which affects our next lives and every unkind thought or evil deed comes back to harm us in this life or next.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">According to Hindu religion the doer of action would have to enjoy the rewards of his action again and again, through the process of births and deaths unless he gains salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">How will the human beings get eternal bliss or salvation ?</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Human beings should participate in the actions (Niskama Karma) not actuated by any gainful motive.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">This is the best or ideal karma.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It is performed as a duty towards God or mankind without seeking any reward (Niskama Karma).</sent>
				<sent id ="217">So, a doer will not have to enjoy the rewards of his deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">This is the way of having salvation or eternal bliss.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Ordinarily it is known to men that they will get heaven as a reward of their good work.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Again they will suffer in the hell of their evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">It has been said in the Sruti, Sargo Kamo jojet-this means, wishing heaven; if you perform the sacrificial rites, you will get the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Heaven is a place where complete happiness reigns.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">For enjoying peace and happiness the place has been fixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">There is no disease, no grief, no decay.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">There is an elaborate description of heaven in the Puranic scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Heaven is the abode of gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Indra, the king of gods live there.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Indra is not the name of any deity; it is the title of the king of heavens.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Baijayanta is the name of Indra's palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">An elephant named Oirabat and a horse named Uchaishraba is used as his chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Sudharma is the name of Indrass devsava.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Nandankanon is the name of the garden which stands on the Mandakini.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Amarabati is the name of its capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Spring always reigns there, sweet and delicious food and milk of the Suravi cow are served for the dwellers.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Though it is a place of enjoyment, man cannot stay here for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Man gets heaven for his virtuous work but his virtue decreases in enjoying the bliss of heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">When his virtue comes to an end, his time for residing in the heaven also ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Then he has to come down to earth having a re-birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">One thing is to be mentioned here that human bodies perish at death.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Then an acute body is created to enjoy or suffer his karma or actions.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Now, who is eligible to enter the heaven?</sent>
				<sent id ="242">In the scripture it has been mentioned: Sarbohingsanibritta : Je Narah : Sarbongsahascha je Sarbosyasrayaobhutascha te Nara : Swargogamin: This means that those who have left hatred, have full toleration and have looked after the well being of everyone can enter the Heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The virtuous are eligible for entering into Heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Man can also do evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">For that he is to have punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The place where he suffers punishment is known as Hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">There are a number of hells.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Tamisro, Andhatamisro, Rowrab, Moha Rowrab, Kumvipak, Ashipatrabon etc. are the names of a few hells.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">In the Brahmaboibarta Purana there is a description of 86 wells of hells.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The sinners are put or thrown there for punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The hell is full of darkness.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">The sinners suffer there for food and drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">They also suffer burning and different forms of punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Different forms of punishment are given for different sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The sinners suffer different degrees of punishment considering their sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">At the end of their sufferings, they are freed from the hells.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Then they come to this earth having re-births according to their karma.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The word Yoga means to unite and is used to imply the path by which the individual soul unites with God.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The process of worshipping God through yogas is called Yoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The sage Jaggyabalka speaks highly about it and the word Yoga means unite.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">In chapter vi.verse no 29 of the Shreemath Bhagabath Geeta, it has been said, A true yogi observes Me in all beings, and also sees every being in Me.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Patanjali, the author of Yogasutra says that Yoga means self-control.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Yoga system is a means to control the mind and the senses.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">The aim of Hotayoga is to make one's body strong, healthy and fit for controlling any power.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">It is not to be confused with physical exercises.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The aim of Rajayoga is to unite the embodied soul together with -the eternal soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">With this process man gets eternal bliss, Rajayoga has eight types of disciplines.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">They are to be practised gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Yama: Yama means attainment of absence of malice, truth, end, continence and celibacy.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Niyama : Niyama is the second form of discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">It means observance of purity, complacence, meditation; study of the Veda and worshipping of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Both yama and Niyama aim at uniting one's soul with that of God with the help of self-restraint.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Asana : Asanas are Yogic postures which, when practised, steady the mind for concentration and discipline the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">In short they mean keeping the body steady and staying at ease.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Asanas are of different kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">As an example Padmasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Gomukhasana, Holasana, Ustrasana etc. Pranayama : This is known as breathing exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Its, etymological meaning is restraint on regular work- of respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Pratyahara : It means shutting out all outward impressions from the mind and looking inward.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Asan and Pranayam can make the body inactive but cannol- totally pacify the distraction of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Dharana : It means concentration on any one subject or thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Dhyana : Dhyana means meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">This involves an unceasing flow of thoughts and ideas.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Samadhi : This is the final or last type of discipline in the Yoga system.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Here the mind is lost with the subject of the meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Samadhi itself has two steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">In the first, the Sabikalpa (conscious) Samadhi, the Yogi attains supernatural powers of clairvoyance by his Yogic practices.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The Yogi, who ignores such powers and progresses further, attains the superconscious or Nirvikalpa Samadhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The Yogi in this stage is a liberated soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">The way of practising a few Yogasanas is described here :</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Sarbangasana : This asana, if practised, will make all the limbs of the body healthy, strong and free from diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">This asana is known as Sarbangasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">How to practise : At first lie fully on your-back.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Then keep the thigh, the knees and the feet united and folding your knees bring them close to your breast.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Then keep the folding legs straight up.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Folding the elbows keep your two hands at the joining place of the waist and hip and try to keep your body balanced.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Maintain this position and drop your legs by the side of head and slowly and gradually keep the legs straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Now put your hands a bit down at your back and try to balance your body.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Keep your eyes shut and take normal breath.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">After 4 or 5 minutes bring your two hands slowly on the joint of your waist and hip.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Lean your legs a bit at your back.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Then folding your knees, bring them close to your breast.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Then leave your hands from your waist and keep them on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">After that put your waist and hip slowly on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Then have rest at your full length.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Practise this two or three times if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The word halla means the plough.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">During the practice of this asana the body looks like a plough.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">So this asana is known as Hallasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">At first lie fully on your back on the ground or on a hard place.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">The thighes, the knees and the feet be united.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Fold-the knees and try to bring them as close as possible to your breast.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Now this folding legs will have to be kept up straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Folding elbows, keep your two hands on the waist and hip and try to balance your body.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Try to keep your two legs straight on your head and touch the ground or try to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Now leave your hands from your waist and keep them on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Keep your eyes shut.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Breathe slowly but deeply.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Practise this asana ten or twelve times and putting your hands on your waist you are to balance, your body.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Then gradually fold your knees and lie at your full length and take rest.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
