<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-hind-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.016</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">208</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2223</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">829</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t91">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The books that deal with religion are called scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">God is the root of everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">So the root of religion is God.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">So in the scriptures we find the sayings of God and the description of His greatness.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">There we find also valuable advices.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">But these are not given directly; they are given through stories or events.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">We know that the Veda is our main sacred book.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">A great literary work on religion created on the basis of this great Veda known as Vedic Literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">This literature comprises of group of texts namely the Sanghita, Brahmanas, the Aranyakas and the Upanisads.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The Vedic Sanghita : The Veda means knowledge, sacred knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">This is the sayings of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In ancient days the rotaries used to find out the secret of life and earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Those who are successful in this regard are called saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">These saints are the composers of Vedic hymns.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">They have given us the perfect ideas about life and earth and the supreme controller God.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">It is said that they have seen or felt God's saying through their meditation and expressed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">It is not composed by any man.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">It is revealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The great saint Monu said, Veda Akhi1dharmamulam.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The Veda is the basis of Akhil dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He who reads the Veda learns about religion, nature of earth, life and Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The Veda is written in both prose and verse forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Many parts of it are full of poetic verses.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">So the Veda's another name is 'chandos'.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The speeches of the Veda are also called mantras.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The saints used these mantras (incantation) to perform the ceremonial rites called Yaggya (oblation).</sent>
				<sent id ="27">At that time images of the gods were not prevalent for woshipping.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">There was no idolatry.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The gods are associated with the Veda.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The saints have spoken highly of gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">They praised the gods and sang about their influence, power and position.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">They sometimes prayed to them for power, prosperity, property and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Sometimes they spoke only about the Brahma (God).</sent>
				<sent id ="34">They have classified Gods in three classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Gods of the paradise; Gods of the sky; 3. Gods of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Gods of the paradise live quite far from the earth, As an example, Visnu or the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The gods of the earth can be seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">As an example, Agni.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The : Gods of the sky reside in between the paradise and the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">As an example, Indra or the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">As agni, the-God of fire can be seen, he is asked to come burning fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Precious things are offered and sacrificed in his name in ceremonial way.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Other gods are also welcomed through him after reciting mantras and verses from the Veda.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The prayer is called Yaggya (oblation-a ceremonial rite).</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Sometimes the verses are sung to perform ceremonial rites (Yaggya).</sent>
				<sent id ="46">They are then called Sama which means songs.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The Veda also deals with the different aspects and ideas of man's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">For long the Veda was undivided.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Later on the great saint Krishna Daipayan classified it in four classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">They are: The Rigveda, The Samaveda, the Yajurveda and the Atharvaveda.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">As he divided the Veda, he is known as Bedabyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Each of the divisions of the Veda is known as Sanghita which means collection or adoption.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The Rigveda Sanghita : The word Rik means hymns or songs.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The Rigveda Sanghita is the compilation of these songs.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">There are 10,472 (Ten thousand four hundred and seventy two) Rik or mantras adopted.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Such a verse with a few mantras is called Sukto.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">There are 1028 (one thousand and twenty eight) suktas An Anubak has been formed of some Suktas.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Again, A Mondol has been formed of some Anubakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">There are 10 (ten) Mandols in the whole Rigveda.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The whole Rigveda is again divided of eight classes having same number of verses.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The each section of those eight is called Astaque which comprises of eight chapters having 2000 bargas.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">But the Mondol system is quite in vogue.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The names of the saints or sages who perceived the Rigveda are Grithsamed, Bishwamitra, Bamadev, Atri, Varodwas, Baishista and Kanwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The sages have prayed for some gods and composed some Riks for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Of them the names of Agni, Indra, Visnu, Barun; Purus and Usha are quite wellknown.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Here is an example from Rigveda.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Agni is the priest of the ceremonial rite called Yaggya.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">He glows with high spirit and the addresser of the gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He serves as the liaison between Gods and men.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">He presides over all the great events of a personls life.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">So I pray and sing for his support and help.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The number 1/1/1 at the right end of the Rik means it is cited from the first Rik of the first Sukta of the first Mondol.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The Samaveda Sanghita : During a ceremonial rite (Yaggya), a few verses are sung instead of reciting them.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Those sung verses are collected and written in the Samaveda.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">There are 1810 (one thousand eight hundred and ten) verses in the Samaveda.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Except 75 verses, all of them are taken from the Rigveda.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The verses of the Rigveda are recited while the verses of the Samaveda are sung.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The Yajurveda Sanghita : By the word Yaju we understand the mantras in performing a ceremonial rite (Yaggya).</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Yaju's knowledge means the Yajurveda and the compilation of this knowledge is called the Yajurveda Sanghita.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The Rigveda and the Samaveda are composed in poems.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But in the Yajurveda mantras are composed in both prose and poetry.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The Yajurveda is of two kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Krishna Yajurveda and Sukla Yajurveda.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The other names of the Krishna and the Sukla Yajurveda are Taittiriya Sanghita and Bajsoneyee Sanghita.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">In Krishna Yajurveda there are, 7 (seven) kandas and 2184 (two thousand one hundred and eighty four) Kandika or mantras.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">In Sukla Yajurveda there are 40 (forty) chapters and 1915 (one thousand nine hundred and fifteen) mantras.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The Atharvaveda Sanghita :- Here different kinds of mantras have been adapted.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">As for example, medicine, auspicious or propitious works of day to day life, causing fatal harm to enemies etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Its original name is Atharvangirasa-veda.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">It has 20 (twenty) kandas; 731 (seven hundred and thirty one) Suktas and about 6000 (six thousand) mantras.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">It is important to note that the Veda is not written at first.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Both the teacher and the taught used to memorise the verses after hearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">So the Veda's another name is Shruti.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The Brahmanas : The Veda has two parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">One is mantra and the other is Brahmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In the Veda where the explanation of mantras and different ceremonial rites are discussed is called the Brahmanas.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">They are written in prose.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The subject matter of the Brahmanas includes the principles and directions of special karmas, necessary explanations of any mantras, the criticism of opposing opinions, the praise of a ceremonial rite and the examples of some of the rites of the Brahmanas.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The Oithareya, the Kaushitoki, the Panchobingsha, the Satopath, Gopath are famous Brahmanas.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The Aranyakas and the Upanisads : The Aranyakas and the Upanisads are the parts of the Brahmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The Brahmana deals with the works of the Veda and the Aranyakas and the Upanisads deal with Gyankando (Reason).</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Aranyakas : What has been composed in a forest is called Aranyaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The subject matter of the Aranyaka is the philosophy of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Here philosophical subjects like the source of this creations, the purpose of ceremonial sacrifices etc are discussed.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The deep wisdom has been compared to the deep aranyaka or, forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Important Aranyakas are Oithareya and Brihadaranyaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Upanisads : The philosophical ideas that have been introduced in the Aranyaka have also deeply and greatly been considered in the Upanisads.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The learning that one learns sitting beside Guru (teacher) is called Upanisad, The subject matter of the Upanisads is something more.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The main thing of a living being is the soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The soul is the part of the Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">So the living beings are as good as Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">This Brahma is formless or shapeless.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He lives in the living beings as souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He is the root of everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">This knowledge of Brahma is the subject matter of the Upanisads.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The another name of the Upanisad is Bedanta as it has come to the end of the Bedic literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">There are more than 100 (one hundred) Upanisads.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Of them 12 (twelve) Upanisads are of ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The Sreemath Bhagavath Geeta is called the summation of all Upanisads though it is included in the Mahavarata.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Oithareya, kath, Keno, Chandoggo.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Mundak, Mandukaya are famous Upanisads.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Here is a story from Brihadaranyaka Upanisad.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Brahma or Prajapati has created gods, demons and men, Brahma also took the charge of teaching them.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">They were in the asram of Brahma together.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">One day they sought an advice from Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He said Da.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He then laughed and asked what they had understood with this.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The gods thought paradise, is the place of happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It is necessary to make sacrifices for maintaining religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Probably Brahma has advised them to have self control.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">So Da means suppress or control.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Then turn came for men.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Brahma also said to them Da.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">He laughed and asked them what they had meant by this.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">It is the nature of men to do savings of money and wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">So they thought the Brahma had advised them to give away their money or wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">So they told Him that they had understood.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Then came the turn of the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The Brahma also spoke the same word Da.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">After a while, He asked them what they had understood.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Then the demons thought they, are sometimes cruel and behave cruelly.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">So probably the Brahma had advised them to be kind.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">This story is though for different situations, it is of great importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The advice is quite useful and valuable.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Practise self control.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Offer charitable gifts to the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Be kind to the distressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Each Sanghita is associated with a Brahmana, an Aranyaka and an Upanisad.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Here is a chart for the Aranyaka and the Upanisada.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">There are a few helping books to study the Veda.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">They are known as the Vedango.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">They are of six kinds; such as, Shiksma, Kalpo, Byakaron, Nirukta, Chanda and Jyotish.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The Veda is the original book, of the Hinduism.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">This is not a single sacred book.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">This is the compilation of so many sacred books.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">If any one wants to know about ancient India, this vedic literature will be of great help.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Shreemad Bhagabath Purana is one of the important scriptures of Hinduism.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The word purana means speeches of ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">A kind of scripture that deals with creations, religious beliefs, customs and traditions, histories, tales of the past etc. is called Purana.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The Bhagabath-Purana is called Shreemath Bhagabath.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The great Vedabyas has composed this.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">There are 12 (twelve) Skandha or chapters here.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The Bhagabath Purana speaks highly of the creations of Brahma, Barahabatar, Dhrubocharita, Prohlladacharita, the account of Chandra and Surjya dynasties and specially Shree Krishna's sports at Mathura and Brindabana, the achievements of Zadu dynasty and its destruction etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">All these are, the subject matter of the Bhagabath Purana.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">It is the scripture of the Baisnava.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Shree Krishna is the God to be worshipped.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Devotion is the main theme here.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Shree Krishna Himself is the Vagoban.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He calls his devotees playing on the flute.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">This is the oldest Purana and is read in the special ceremonial occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">If this is read and heard quietly, devotion becomes sound; the soul becomes pure anct peace is attained.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Here is a story of the Bhagabath.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Long long ago, there was a king named Uttanpada.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He had two queens.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The first queen is Suniti and the second queen is Suruchi.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Dhrubo is Suniti's son and Uttama is the son of Suruchi.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The king loved Suruchi and his son Uttama much.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Dhrubo was less loved.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Suniti lived at one corner with his son Dhrubo with much hardship.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">One day Uttama was sitting on the lap of his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">At that time Dhrubo appeared there.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He also wished to sit on his father's lap.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Suruchi saw this from a distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">She rushed there and drove Dhrubo away.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">This hurt Dhrubo so much.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He ran to his mother and informed her of this incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Suniti felt pity for the boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">She said to him Oh, my son, pray to Hari with devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He will help you and remove your sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Dhrubo became quiet at his mother's advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">He left the palace in search of 'Hari'.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">He was praying to Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">At one time he reached a dense forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He thought every one to be Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">At the heartiest prayer of Dhrubo Shree Hari became contented: He sent Narod.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Narod came to him and asked Dhrubo what he wanted.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Dhrubo prayed to him for showing him how he would get blessings of Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Narod was pleased at his behaviour and taught him many things to worship Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Dhrubo sat beside the river Kalindi and began to meditate Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">At last Shree Hari could not but be pleased with Dhrubo for his undivided devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He came to Dhrubo.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He (D) lay at Hari's feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Then Hari said, In spite of being a boy you have prayed so hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">This has been possible for your virtuous mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">For her grace you have succeeded.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Later on, Dhrubo returned to the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">His father Uttanpada made him king.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">After his death Dhrubo was put in the paradise.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
