<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-hind-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.108</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">504</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5792</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1649</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t94">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">By religion we understand the principles that one can hold.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">After following those principles man can live peacefully; lead sacred and disciplined life.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">He can also control his animality.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He becomes humane, honest, sincere, dutiful and wishes to do good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">According to the Manushanghita, there are four ideals which a follower of Hinduism should follow.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">They are the Veda, Smriti, virtuous practices (Sadachar) and the voice of conscience (bibeker bani).</sent>
				<sent id ="7">In other words, a Hindu should have firm faith in the Veda, follow the principles of the Smriti;</sent>
				<sent id ="8">take decision after the virtuous practices followed by great men in spite of all these, if the problem is not solved, he has to follow the voice of his conscience.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Besides all these, more ten external characteristics have been mentioned in the Monushanghita through which Hinduism is revealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They are toleration, forgiveness, kindness, not to steal, purity, self-restraint, practising virtue, knowledge, truth and dispassionateness.God is the root of everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">So God is the root of the religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The main thing of religion is to have faith in God.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">What is opposite to moral principles or virtues is known as vice.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">As an example, not to take part in stealing is a virtue while taking part in stealing is a vice.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">So we should follow the path of religion discarding the path of vice.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">We should discriminate between right and wrong and follow the principles of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">A virtuous man may have difficulties for the time being but he becomes successful or victorious in the long run.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Here is a story how virtue is rewarded and vice is punished.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Virtue wins Long, long ago, during Satyayugo, there was a king named Hiranyakashipu.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">He belonged to the race of demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He, like all demon kings, was hostile to gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">He disliked Lord Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Everything must have an end.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">A devotee of Lord Hari was born in the race of sinners (demons).</sent>
				<sent id ="25">He was Prohllad, the son of the King Hiranyakashipu.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Prohllad, along with other boys, was sent to the teacher for learning.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">But he was not at all interested to learn.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He was not satisfied there.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">One day, the king affectionately asked Prohllad what he liked most.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Prohllad replied that he did not find attraction in any earthly thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">He wanted to devote himself to the service of Lord Hari in a dense forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The king Hiranyakashipu wondered.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">He became very much mentally disturbed and sent his son again to the teacher for a change.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">But Prohllad was not changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He uttered repeatedly the name of Lord Hari in devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">A number of attempts were adopted to change the mind of Prohllad but no change took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">At last the king decided to kill Prohllad.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">So the demons were called in.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">They were gigantic to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">They came with sharp tridents in hand to kill Prohllad.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">They pierced the tridents in the breast of Prohllad but his holy breast was not at all got hurt.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Prohllad was given poison-mixed food, he was thrown under the feet of elephants, he was kept in the hole of snakes and again he was thrown from a high mountain to a wild sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">But all these attempts faild to kill Prohllad.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The king himself rushed to kill Prohllad.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He said to Prohllad, How did you dare to worship my enemy disobeying my order?</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Prohllad said, Father, I worship Lord Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">He is an enemy to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">He is the friend and protector of everyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">He is everywhere and thus saves me.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The king got furious and said, Is he everywhere?</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Is he in the pillar of crystal?</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Prohllad answered politely, Yes, he is there.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The king then got up from the throne, rushed to the pillar of crystal and struck the pillar with a hard blow.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">A tremendous sound was heard everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The pillar was broken into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The king Hiranyakashipu had a boon that no man, god or demon be able to kill him either in the heaven or in the hell or on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">All on a sudden a wonderful thing happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Everybody found that Lord Hari in the shape of Man-lion (the 4th incarnation of Visnu in the form of a Nrisingha, whose upper half of the body was shaped like a man whilst the lower half was shaped like a lion) was sitting in the broken pillar of crystal.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Hiranyakashipu was about to, hurt the Man-lion with his large falcion (sword).</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Then Man-lion caught hold of him, took him on the lap and killed him with his nails.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Lord Hari revealed himself before Prohllad.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Prohllad bowed down and desired that he might be more devoted to Lord Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Virtue wins in the long run.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It protects the virtuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Chapter Nine Stories Shree Shree Chandi is one of the important religious books of Hinduism.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">This book is also an especial part of the Purana.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Considering its content and out standing composition, it is regarded as good as a separate scripture.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Here the glory of the goddess (Durga) has been nicely presented in a story Mahisasura was killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Listen to that story.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">In ancient times Indra, the king of gods, was involved in a serious face to face battle with Mahisasura, the king of demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The battle went on for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">At last the gods were defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The demons drove the gods from the heaven and occupied the place.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The gods were helpless.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">One day they all sat together.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They all went to Mahadeva and Visnu with Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The evil deeds of the demons were narrated thoroughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">At this Mahadeva and Visnu got very much angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Brahma and other gods also were shocked and became very angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Fire like glow began to come out from the body of all the gods present.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">This glow gradually took the form of a great ball of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">From that ball there appeared a goddess.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The gods were very glad to find their lustre in her.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Every one made a sword from his own and presented her that.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The goddess with those swords decorated herself in a beautiful way.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The Himalayas presented her a lion as her riding animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Then the goddess Durga made a very roaring laughter again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The heaven, the earth and the hell trembled.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The gods became happy and the sages began to pray to that goddess.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">On the other hand, the demons were furious.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Mahisasura rushed to the direction of the sound with thousands of soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">From a distance, he found an exquisitely beautiful woman with swords and weapons, making a very roaring laughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">At the order of Mahisasura the demons attacked the goddess from all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The goddess threw arrows (ban) and the swords of the demons were broken into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The swords of the goddess began to hurt them incessently.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">After that, from her breathing a class of subordinate deities (ganodevata) was created.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The demons were attacked by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The lion also took part in the attack.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">So they (the demons) could not face the united attack.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">They were totally defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">During this hour of imminent defeat, Chikku, the commander-in-chief of Mahisasura came to fight with the goddess Durga.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">A fierce battle took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">But Chikku got lost and died.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">All the great fighters of the demons were defeated and died.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Then Mahisasura himself appeared to face the goddess.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">At first he took the form of a buffalo and advanced towards the devi.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">At first he succeeded to make loss to the ganodevatas.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">After that the battle between the goddess and Mahisasura began.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The fight continued.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The devi (goddess) separated Mahisasura's head from his body with the strokes of her falchion.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Thus Mahisasura was killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The joys of the gods knew no bounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">They were freed from the oppression of the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">They became grateful to the goddess Durga.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">They bowed down to her, began to praise her in the following language; Sarbamangalamangaley Shivey Sarbarthasadhikey Saraney trombakey Gourey Narayani nomohostu tey.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The meaning of the above praise is, You are the doer of all kinds of wellbeings.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">You are beneficent.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">You are the gratifier of every desires.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">You are capable of giving protection to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">You are three-eyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">You are Gourey and you are Narayani.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Oh Devi, we bow to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Here is a story of a very glorified lady of ancient age.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Her name is Moitreyee.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">She was the wife of a great saint named Yagyobalka.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He had another wife named Kattayani.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Moitreyee was virtuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">She, like her husband, used to pass her days in meditation and performing religious rites.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">On the other hand, Kattayani used to do all the household works and considered looking after her husband her main task.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Yagyobalka was usually passing his domestic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">One day he thought he had reached the third stage of his life and he should leave home and go to the forest to pass the remaining days of his life to the attainment of spiritual emancipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">This process is known as banprastha.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">He told his wives if they would gladly allow him to leave the abode, he would do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The wives kept silent considering ane spirit of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Yagyobalka became glad at this and wanted to divide all the properties of the house between the two wives.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">He wanted to do so because during his absence there might have difference of opinions between the two about the property and wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Moitreyee thought deeply and wanted to know if she would achieve spiritual enlightenment of her soul with the money, property or wealth she would have from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Yagyobalka replied, How that can be done?</sent>
				<sent id ="139">None can achieve spiritual enlightenment with only wealth and money.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">But wealthy men can enjoy their lives and maintain peace and happiness in domestic life with their wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">You will be able to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Moitreyee became sad at the reply.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">She said Zenahang namrittya shyang kimhang tena kurjana - which means, she did not need to have such things as could not bring enlightenment of the soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Yagyobalka became very glad and added that wealth, men, money and earthly things are negligible.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Freedom from earthly attachment and free from greed is greatly needed for salvation of the soul or for achieving heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Whatever we do is for love of our soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">We love wealth not for its own sake, but for its utility to mitigate our needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Our soul is the only thing we love.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Moitreyee became very satisfied at the advice of Yagyobalka.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">She understood that the sea of Amrita or nectar is not very far.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Her soul is the most coveted nectar.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">God lives in all living beings as souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Human beings, birds, beasts and all creatures are living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">So to serve a living being is to serve God.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">God is everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He is all pervading.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">In the Upanisada it has been mentioned that everything is Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">In the Geeta Shree Krishna also said that God is in the hearts of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">So serving a living being means serving God Himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Here is a story of Siddhartha and Devadatta where we find an ideal example of serving a living being.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Siddhartha was the early name of Gautama Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He was very kind and noble hearted by nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">He was soft hearted and could not bear or tolerate the sufferings of any living being.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">One day in the afternoon, Siddhartha was sitting in the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">All on a sudden, a swan dropped down close to his feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">An arrow was pierced through its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">It was bleeding fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Siddhartha was greatly moved and grew sympathetic at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He tenderly took the swan and pulled out the arrow from its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">He then began to serve the swan most affectionately.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Then Devadatta, Siddhartha's playmate came there running.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He said, Siddhartha, I have shot the swan with the arrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The swan is mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Give it to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Siddhartha said, No Devadatta, I cannot give it to you.Devadatta said to him, Why can't you give it to me?</sent>
				<sent id ="176">That is a swan of the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">I have shot it.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The swan is now mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">So give it to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Siddhartha then said, What are you saying, Devadatta?</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Don't you have any feeling of weal and woe ?</sent>
				<sent id ="182">If you are hurt, you will feel same pain as the swan feels now.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">So it is our duty to try to relieve the sufferings of the swan.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">At this Devadatta got angry and asked him to hand over the swan.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">But Siddhartha remained quiet and requested his friend Devadatta to realise the situation and asked him not to disturb him.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He (S) also requested him (D) to take whatever he liked to take in exchange of the swan.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Remember, it is better to save a life than to kill.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Devadatta was astonished at his friend's determination to save the life of the swan.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Siddhartha's nobility and kindness touched the heart of Devadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">He gave up his claim.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Siddhartha flew the swan in the sky after relieving its wound.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">About five hundred years ago, caste system and race hatred created differences and strong enmities between man and man in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">So there was chaos everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">To mitigate this Lord Shree Gourango tried his best.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">He taught how to practise the religious rites in an easy and simple manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">This Shree Gourango is known as Shree Gourasundar or Shree Chaitannya.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">His companion was Lord Nittyananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">He had a few noted companions like Shree Adaitacharya, Shree Haridas, Shreerupa, Shree Sanatana, Shreejib, Shree Gopal Bhatta, Shree Raghunath Das etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The great Lord Shree Chaitannya advised Shree Nittyananda to engage himself in glorifying the name of Shree Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">It would make his body and soul pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">It would also help one to be free from sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He engaged himself to sing in praise the name of Shree Krisna.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Shree Gourango and Shree Nittyananda were always beside with joy to do, good to the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">They hated sin but not the sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Their main object was to emancipate the sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">While Shree Gourango was in Nabadip, he ordered his devotees Nittaynanda and Haridas to visit every house and preach the name of Shree Krishna among all for their salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">According to the advice they began to preach.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">During that time two brothers named Jogai and Madhai lived in Nabadip.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Though they were the sons of a Brahmin, they used to oppress the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">They were Government servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">They were policemen.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">So people got afraid of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Nittyananda learnt about the two brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">He met them.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">His heart was filled with pity.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">His only thought was how to bring the two brothers to the path of Justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Nittyananda and Haridas decided to go close to the two brothers and began to sing in praise the name of Shree Krisna.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Balo Krisna bhaja Krisna Kaha Krisna naam Krisna mata Krisna pita Krisna dhanopran.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Tuma saba lagiaya Krisnayer abatar.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Heno Krisna bhaja saba charo anachar ( Chaitannya-Bhagabath.) The main theme of the above verse is to sing in the praise of Shree Krisna.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">It advises to rise above all misdeeds and ill practices and become the devotee of Shree Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">As soon as the two brothers Jogai and Madhai heard of them, they got angry and drove them away.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Nittyananda and Haridas ran fast and reached the hermitage of Gourasundar.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">At one evening when Nittyananda was returning home with the name of Hari in his mouth, he was caught by the two brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">They became furious at the name of Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">At this Nittyananda was very much shocked thinking their future.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">He began to shed tears at their ruins but hard-hearted two brothers did not understand his feeling rather they became very angry and hurt him with the rim of a pitcher.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Nittyananda's forehead began to ooze blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Even during this hour he (N) was reciting the name of Hari in full devotion as if nothing had happened to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">He requested Jogai and Madhai to sing the name of Hari for salvation of their souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Madhai was again about to beat him Nittyananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Then Jogai caught hold of his hand and prevented him from beating Nittyananda and asked him what good was for them to beat the monk that had come from a distant place.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">As soon as Gourasundar heard of it , he rushed to that spot with his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">He (G) was very much angry after seeing the bloody body of Nittyananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">He (N) consoled him (G) saying that he (N) would not mind for his wound.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">He (N) requested him (G) to pray for them and take the two as his (G) devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">He (N) also did not forget to say that Jogai tried to stop Madhai from beating him.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">At this Shree Gourango laughed and said that in that case he could forgive Jogai.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">But Madhai was guilty to Nittyananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Those who oppress my devotees, I cannot forgive them.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Then Nittyananda said politely that he had already forgiven him.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">He also requested his Lord (G) to pray for them so that they would understand the glory of Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Saying this he (N) took Madhai up and embraced with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Shree Gourango also could not but embrace Jogai.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">After this incident a great change took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The two brothers Jogai and Madhai were completely changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">They used to recite and sing Hare Krisna, Hare Krisna always.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Tears rolled down their cheeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">They became two real dovotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">We, the common people are self centered.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">We only think for our good and try to fulfil our ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">But those who are great and noble think for the good of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">They even sacrifice their lives for the cause of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">In the Mahavarata and Bhagabath there is a story of the hermit Dodhichi who sacrificed his own life for the betterment of gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Here is that story.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">In ancient days there was a sage named Dodhichi in Naimisarannya forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">He was strong, good looking and a devotee of Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">He went through a number of scriptures and had a sound knowledge of practising religious rites.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">He used to live in a hut so that he could pray well.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">At that time Britra, a demon, became very powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">He was a favourite follower of Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">He got a boon from Shiva that it would not be possible to kill him using any of the weapons of either gods or demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Having this boon he became aggressive and oppressive.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">He conquered the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">He drove Indra, the king of heavens away and became the king himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">He began to oppress the other gods who were compelled to leave the heaven and came to this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">They used to live here in disguise.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">All the important gods including Indra met together and came to Shiva for redressing their miseries.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Shiva was then in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">So all the gods began to praise Shiva in a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Shiva heard everything from the gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">He advised them to go to Visnu who can help them in this regard.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Then they went to him and began to praise Visnu in a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">At this Visnu (Narayana) became contented and said, Go to Dodhichi Muni.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">He is a benevolent man.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Ask him to give you a boon.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">When he agrees to give it, you will say, Please give us your bone for the welfare of the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Then build thunder balts with that bone and hurt him (Britrasur) with that.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Britrasur would only then be killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Indra, with other gods arrived at the hermitage of Dodhichi.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">He (D) became very glad at their arrival and welcomed them most cordially.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Indra spoke to him the reason of their coming and their present miseries created by Britrasura.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">In order to regain their status, Narayana had sent them to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Saying so Indra stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">He was hesitating to speak.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Giving him courage Dodhichi said, Please inform me, what the order of Narayana (God) is.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Then Indra said, Oh Great sage, Narayana has told us that Britrasur would only be killed with the sword named Bajra made of your bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">So it is our earnest appeal to give us your bone after you have met death.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The benevolent hermit Dodhichi said to the gods, I shall be grateful if I can do a favour to gods even at the cost of my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">This mortal body will one day be perished.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">84 Hindu Religion Studies I shall be thankful if this body be used to remove your sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Saying this the hermit Dodhichi met death before gods by the practice of Yoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">From Dadhichi's self sacrifice we may learn the principle of sacrifice for the cause of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Our hearts become noble when we utter the names of our prayed gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">When we remember God again and again, it creates a feeling of love and affection for the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Many wrong doers and sinners achieve salvation only by the greatness of names.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Here is a story of a robber named Ratnakar who for the excellence of Rama's name became the most honoured hermit Balmiky.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">In ancient days the hermit Chaban had a son named Ratnakar.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">He was a turbulent robber.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">He used to hide himself in a forest taking a club with him and as soon as he found a passerby, he would attack and kill him and snatch all his belongings.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">He had been following this practice for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">One day Ratnakar was in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">But he was quite sad as he did not find any passerby to attack.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">All on a sudden, he found two hermits passing through the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">He decided to kill them and take away their belongings.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">As soon as they came nearer, he took his club to hit them.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">A wonderful incident took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Rantakar found his hands stiff.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">He could no longer move his hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">The two hermits were Brahma and Narod.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Ratnakar's hands got stiff due to the spell of Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Brahma laughed and said to him, (R), You want to kill us.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">But don't you know it is a sin ?</sent>
				<sent id ="314">You have been killing men for days together.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Is there anybody who shares your sin? Ratnakar said, I do not think the question of virtue and vice.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">But what I earn by killing or robbing men, I try to maintain my family consisting of four members (that includes my mother, father and wife) with that.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Well, I think, we, the all four members share the sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Brahma laughed at this and said, None is there to share your sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">If you don't believe me, go to them and ask them.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">We are waiting here till you come.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Ratnakar tied them with a tree and went home to know the opinion of the members of his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">At first Ratnakar went to his father and said to him, Father, I commit robbery.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">I kill men and collect money.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Thus I try to maintain you all.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Does this make me a sinner ?</sent>
				<sent id ="326">If this is true, will you not take share of my sin ?</sent>
				<sent id ="327">The old father said, When you were a child, I tried my best to feed you and bring you up.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">As time changes, today you are grown up, young and energetic.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">On the other hand, I have become old and weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Now it is your turn to rear me up.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">For this you have not been asked to commit a sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Why shall I take the share of your sin ?</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Ratnakar was alarmed when he had heard of his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">He became worried and came to his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">He asked her the same question that he had asked his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">His mother replied that no son can repay the debt owed to his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">She also refused to take the share of his sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">At last he (R) came to his wife and in reply to his question she said that she was his wife and he married her after reciting mantras that he would protect her in all possible ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">This was his duty to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">So she could not take share of his sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Ratnakar became thoughtful, worried and greatly concerned of his sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">He came back to the forest, untied the hermits and lay down on the feet of Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">He told them what had happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">He begged them to direct him how he would be freed from his sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Brahma became kind to Ratnakar and advised him to bathe from the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">As soon as Ratnakar went to the pond to bathe, he found it free from water.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">He could not bathe for want of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">At last Brahma sprinkled sacred water of the Ganga on his (R) head.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">He initiated Ratnakar in the name Rama and said to him, Pray silently Rama's name.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">After repeated recitation of his name, you will be freed from your sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Ratnaker tried to utter Rama's name but he failed to do so at first.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Then Brahma advised him to utter, mara repeatedly which would help him uttering Ramas name.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">He (R) began to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Brahma left the place for heaven with Narod.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Ratnakar sat in Yogasana (meditation) and repeatedly began to pray the name of Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">After many days Brahma was passing through the same path.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">He forgot about Ratnakar.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Brahma heard the continuous sound of Rama's name.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">He found none close to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">All on a sudden he called up Ratnakar's name.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">But where he was.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">He found an ant-hill before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">From that hill the sound of Rama was coming.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">In order to see and know the mystery, Brahma remembered Indra.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">At his (R) order, Indra, the god of rain caused rain continuously for seven days.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Rain water carried away the ant-hill and a skeleton of a man was found there.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">From that skeleton Rama's name was being sung.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">At Brahma's desire the skeleton was given flesh and blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Ratnakar got life again.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Then Brahma said, You have been freed from all your sins at the greatness of Rama's name.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">You are now a saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">When you were devoted in the name of Rama, an ant-hill was built surrounding you.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">So from today you will be named Bamlky (ant-hill).</sent>
				<sent id ="374">He also advised him (R) to compose the book on Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Later on, Balmiky composed the Ramayana and thus became famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Force means strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">A man needs to have force if he wants to do any work.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">To fight injustice he needs the strength of arm.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">To have any material gain he needs monetary strength, To find out right and wrong he needs to have knowledge or wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">But above all he needs virtuousness or force of piety most to have a meaningful life.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Dharma rakswati rakswita.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">If religion is protected then it protects religious man.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">In ancient days, during the reign of Chandra dynasty there was a king named Ushinara.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">He is narrated in the Mahavarata.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">He did not hesitate to sacrifice even his life to defend religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Everybody knew about the virtuousness of Ushinara.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Even the gods in heaven came to know of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">They decided to test the force of his (U) piety.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Indra, the king of gods and Agni, the king of fire came forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">They came in disguise.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Indra took the form of a Shyan (hawk) and Agni, the form of a pigeon.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">At that time Ushinara was busy in performing a burnt offering.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Suddenly he (U) found a hawk was chasing a pigeon.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">The pigeon got frightened and dropped down on the lap of Ushinara.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">It said, Please save my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The hawk wants to kill me.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">I want your help, Then the hawk said, Oh, king, I am hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">The pigeon is my food.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Please leave it.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Don't take away my food.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">Ushinara said, How can that be ?</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The pigeon has taken shelter.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">I cannot leave it to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">To protect it is my duty and religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">The hawk said, Sir, you are a virtuous man.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">I need food urgently.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">I am extremely hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">I may meet death due to hunger.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">I have my wife and children.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">If I die, they will be in great troubles.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Do you want to save one life instead of many ?</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Ushinara then said, I am ready to give you anything you demand instead of the pigeon who has taken shelter to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">The hawk repeatedly requested the king to free the pigeon.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">But the king did not agree to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">At last it was decided that the king would supply the hawk the same amount of pigeon's flesh from his own body.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">The king again and again cut his own flesh from his body, but the pigeon's weight was higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">At one time, the kindhearted and virtuous king Ushinara himself sat on the scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Indra was moved at that scene and left the place for heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Then the pigeon (Agni in disguise) said, Sir, I am Agni and He is Indra.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">We came to test how much virtuousness you have attained.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Your glorious sacrifice will remain fresh in the minds of the people as long as the earth remains.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Saying all these Agni returned to heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Everyone praised the force of Ushinara's piety.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Like the Vedas, the Upanisads, the Puranas and the Mahavarata, the Ramayana is also a religious book for the Hindus.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">The story of the Ramayana is as attractive as educative and meaningful.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Here is an important story of the Ramayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">The name of the story is Shree Ramchandra goes to the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Dashoratha was the king of Ajodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">He had three queens named Kaushalya, Kaikayee and Sumitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">They had four sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Kaushala's son was Rama, Bharata was Kaikayee's son; Sumitra had two sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">They were Laksmana and Shatrughna.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">The king Dashoratha became old.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">According to rule or system the eldest son would sit on the throne.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">So the king after consultation with his ministers and priests declared the day of Shree Rama Chandra's coronation (the ceremony of crowning).</sent>
				<sent id ="436">When the ceremony of crowning was declared, the whole of Ajodhya took a merry look.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Everybody was glad and these were flags at every house.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Distinguished guests including many saints like Bashista came to Ajodhya to attend the function.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">It was coronation day morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Manthara, the maidservant of queen Kaikayee came to her (K) room.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">She (M) looked sad and a bit jealous.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">In course of discussion she said, If you wish, your son Bharata may be the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">The king was seriously ill twice.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">You treated him well.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">The king gladly wished to give you two boons.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">You wanted to have them later on.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Now it is the time to seek the boons from the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">At first Kaikayee did not agree to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">But as Manthara insisted her on doing so for her son's welfare, she wanted to know what boons she would ask the king to give her.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Then Manthara said, Tell the king, according to the first boon, Let Bharata be the king and as to the second, Ram should go in the forest, though not for ever, to may be for fourteen years.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Kaikayee thought for a moment and considered the proposal to be useful.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Before the ceremony of crowning, the king came to Kaikayee's room.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">He found the queen sad and the king became mortified.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">He asked her what had happend.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Then Kaikayee prayed the king to fulfil the above mentioned two boons.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">To Dashoratha it was really a bolt from the blue.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">He could not tolerate that his most favourite son Rama would have to go to a forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">But he was promise bound to Kaikayee.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">He requested her to pray for any other boon.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">But she was determined not to change her decision.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">The king could not forbear.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">He (D) began to weep.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">He called Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Rama was then busy preparing himself for the coronation.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">As soon as he heard of his father, he (R) came hurriedly there.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">But he was surprised to see the condition of his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">His father was crying and often lying unconscious.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Rama with tears said to his father, What has happend to you, father?</sent>
				<sent id ="469">The king was utterly perplexed.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">He could not speak.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Only tears rolled down from his eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">At that time Kaikayee said to Rama, Your father was promise bound to give me two boons.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">I did not seek those boons till today.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">I have asked for those boons today.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">The first one is : Let there be the coronation of Bharata instead of you.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">The second one : Bharata would be the king for fourteen years and during this period you will stay in a forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">With full attention Ram heard Kaikayee's proposal.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">He then and then assured his father not to lament.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">He requested him to be true to his word and keep his promise, I pray for Bharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">Let him be the king of Ajodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">I am going to a forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">The king again fainted when he heard of Rama's going to a forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">But Rama was undaunted and determined to do what he had said.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">As time passed he took initiative to go to the forest, When the news of Rama's going to a forest spread, everyone felt sorry and became worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">There was the sign of pathos and sorrows all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">But Rama Chandra was determined.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">At one time, he went to Sita (his wife) to bid farewell.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">On the way he met Laksmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">Laksmana heard everything and decided to accompany him (R) in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">When Sita heard of Rama's decision of going to a forest, she at once decided to follow her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">Rama tried to stop her saying, There are a number of dangers in a forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">But he could not stop her any way.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">So he was compelled to take her.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">All the people, men, women, children who assembled for the coronation of Rama, became extremely sorry and ran after the chariot of Sumantra that would carry Rama and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Rama could see that the king Dashoratha and the queen Kaushalya were following them crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">The chariot flew fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">After three days Rama with his wife and brother reached the bank of Ganga.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">He said to Sumantra, Go back to Ajodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">Inform my father all about us and give him consolation.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Sumantra left the place weeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">Rama was also worried for his parents and people of Ajodhya, but he had to leave home only to save his father's prestige and honour and help his father keeping his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">Shree Rama Chandra believed that it is a part of religion to have self restraint during weal and woe.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">This is surely one of the important principles of Hindu religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">With this ideas in mind he (R) moved forward with his brother and wife in an unknown destination of a forest.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
