<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-homeEco-13</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.3</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">334</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4597</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1361</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t100">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Apparently, cooking seems to be easy but very often it is seen that there might remain some shortcomings in cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The same food prepared at different times may give a different taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">But if food is prepared according to proper guideline by maintaining required quantity of ingredients and the same system of cooking, the taste will be the same at each time.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">For this reason recipe is prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Recipe gives a correct guideline to the person who cooks.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Recipe is a written guideline for preparation of food or it can be said that recipe is a list for cooking following which one can prepare tasty and nutritious food very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Definition of recipe Recipe is a written instruction or guideline where a list of necessary ingredients and a particular or appropriate proportion of ingredients for cooking are mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Recipe is a list that one can follow during preparation of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">For example, recipe for potato chop, Chotpoti and Shami Kabab.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">There are many things that are mentioned clearly in the recipe, such as the name of the food, ingredients, quantity of different ingredients, types of vegetables, chopping system of fish and meat, temperature of oven, cooking time, quantity and the number of persons for whom it will be served.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Even decoration of serving meals is also mentioned in the guideline.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Wastage can be prevented if ingredients of food are measured as per recipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">In an ideal recipe, the number of servings are mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It makes easier for a person to know how many people can take the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Special method and temperature required for cooking are mentioned in recipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">So, during cooking one does not need to change decisions frequently.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">So, it saves time.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">A new dimension of cooking can be brought by following the recipe and one can learn many new items for cooking from recipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Wash rice and let it soak in water for half an hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Discard water and crush the rice slightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Put rice in milk and boil rice and milk at a low temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Put some flavoured spices.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">If necessary, put one cup of boiled water in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">When boiled rice becomes soft, put small quantity of sugar in it and stir it.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">When milk will become thicker, stir it often and quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Then put the remaining quantity of sugar and stir.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">When it becomes thicker put chopped almond- pistachios and raisins.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">When the flavour comes out, sprinkle small amount of rose water on it and remove it from oven.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Put the prepared firni on serving dish while hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">To accomplish any work, man use materials that are called equipment.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">It is never possible to do any daily activity only by hand without the use of necessary equipment.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">During food preparation we also depend on varieties of equipment.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">From purchasing food at different stages, such as during food storage, preparation, cooking, serving up meals and cleaning etc. we do need to use the equipment.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Particularly we need to know about equipment that is used for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">This is because different types of materials are made by different types of metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">As quality of these pieces of equipment vary, use and care for these also have to be done in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It will be easier to work or buy equipment if it is listed properly as per size and structure according to the necessity of its uses.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Cooking utensils used in kitchens may be light or heavy.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">It may be useful if a list is made according to their weight or size.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Furnace, oven, cooking pot made of copper that have weighs about one mound (40 seers) or half mound, heavy fry pan made of iron, big baking pan made of iron, pitchers made of brass, pitchers made of aluminum, heavy cooking pot made of aluminum, pressure- cooker, stone slab for grinding, weighing machines, ranger (2 burners) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">All these equipment and utensils should be arranged before hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Otherwise cooking preparation and serving work will not be done properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">If everything is prepared then it will save time and avoid irritation.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">So, according to a list of menu or recipe all equipment should be arranged before starting work.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">We also use some equipment besides cooking materials that are used in kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">These are refrigerator, freezer, table, basin, cupboard and rack.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">These are necessary but these are not actually utensils.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">These are heavy and not easily moveable.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">So, these are placed in a certain places permanently.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Freezer is needed to preserve perishable food.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Refrigerator can be kept near kitchen and dining room.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Table is needed at each working place.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Basin is also needed for the preparation of food, cooking, serving and washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">We like to eat varieties of food, for example, sour, hot, sweet and salty foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Food of a particular taste is served at a particular situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">For example, food like crispy, hard, half-hard, thick, soft, liquid, tender etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Besides that, some food flavour is also used in different foods when cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">For example, vanilla, banana or orange essence etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Therefore, we use different types of materials or foodstuff for making special attraction in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">These types of materials should be kept in home before cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Because during the time of cooking if the proper material is not used, taste of food and serving decoration can take a different shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Some materials are listed below which can be used according to necessity.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The purpose of cooking is to prepare food as tasteful, easily digestible and free from bacteria, so that it can maintain good health.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It is observed that due to faulty system, food value and standard of nutrition are sometimes lost after cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">For example, there is a general tendency among people to use more spices and boil more in order to make food more tasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Fire and water are naturally used during cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Food values are lost when it is cut into small pieces, washed in water and cooked for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">But if it is done carefully, the wastage of nutrients value of food can be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">On the other hand, people are now interested to eat local as well as foreign food.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">For each item a particular system is followed during cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Only boiled or fried food is not always liked by people.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Naturally, men want varieties in food.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In ancient times, men used to eat fire burnt food, but at present time in this civilized world, men learnt many techniques for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Now men have learned many techniques or processes of cooking and know how to make it simple, quick and attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The current methods of cooking are discussed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">In this method foodstuff is boiled in 100o centigrade or 212o F with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">In this case if water is drained then food nutrients are lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Rice, pulses, soup, meat, halim and chotpoti are cooked in this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In this method food is cooked in small quantity of water in low temperature for a longer period, so that food can be well cooked.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Fish, meat, milk, eggs, green leaves, vegetables, custard, firni etc are cooked following this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">To cook this type of food the temperature ranging from 82o to 100o celsius is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">This method keeps food value and nutrients as much as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">In this method food is boiled directly by steam instead of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Pudding, steamed pithas (cake), steamed hilsha (fish), meat etc. are boiled in a pressure cooker.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Smoked fish etc. are cooked by following this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">In this method temperature ranging from 100o-112o celsius is needed and it keeps food nutrients intact.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Chips, cutlet, chops, luchi, dough nuts, somuchas, singaras, malpoas, pakan pithas, parata, fish etc are generally fried with deep oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">These types of food are cooked at a temperature of 300o Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">At this temperature the foodstuff is cooked quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">When smoke comes out from oil due to high temperature, the oil becomes useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Repeated use of burnt oil is harmful for health.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Vegetables, fish fry, eggs etc are fried with small amount of oil, In this case, food stuff is covered on the fry-pan and fried slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Oil also is not burnt in this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Food value is also preserved to some extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">If food is cooked without cover, the vitamins that are dissolvable in fats dissolved in oil and are blown away in the form of vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Due to that food value is lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Potatoes, brinjals, sweet potatoes, corn etc are prepared by burning.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Shik kabab, boti kabab are also prepared by scalding.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">In this process vitamins of foodstuff are lost totally.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Pop corn, puffed rice, ground nuts are fried by hot sand in this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Prawns and small dry fish are fried in dry pans and then are mashed.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Cumin, coriander, dry fish are fried in hot pans.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Bread is baked in hot pans.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">No oil or water is used in this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Bread, biscuits, pies, cakes, etc. are baked in oven.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">In this process the foodstuff is prepared under direct heat from all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">All raw foods are not suitable for eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">It is necessary to cook raw food in a proper way.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">By cooking, hard food becomes soft and digestible.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">During cooking heat destroys most of the harmful bacteria that exists in the raw foodstuff.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">When food is cooked with oil, spices and other ingredients, according to recipe, the prepared food becomes palatable and tasty in colour and flavour.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Raw food like meat, fish, pulses, eggs, vegetables, can be eaten easily when boiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">It is necessary to know how to cook different types of foods by keeping its food value intact.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Air, heat, fire and light etc have harmful effects on food ingredients.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">For this reason if careful attention is given during cooking, such type of wastage can be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Vegetables should not be cut into small pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Vegetables should be washed before cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Foodstuff should be boiled in low heat and in small quantity of water under cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Boiled water or liquid portion of vegetables after boiling should not be drained.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Eggs should be boiled in low heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">It should not be boiled for long a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">If boiled for a long time then the protein may harden like rubber.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">It is better to boil milk for a longer period in low temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Meat, fish are cooked well when they are boiled in low temperature for a longer period in a covered pan.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Do not throw away rice starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">This results in wastage.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Vitamin B and mineral salt contained in rice are thrown with rice starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Especially about 70% iron is lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It is better to cook vegetables in container that has small opening/mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Due to that oxygen from air cannot destroy the vitamins of vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">When water is slightly warm, put the vegetables in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">This will help to preserve vitamins of the vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">For quick boiling of meat and pulses, if alkali likes soda is used, vitamin C and B are spoiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It is better to cook in earthen or aluminum pot instead of iron or copper utensils.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">This will prevent the wastage of vitamin C and also acid reaction from sour taste of food when cooked.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">It is harmful to heat oil or ghee in high temperature and use it repeatedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It creates toxic element that may cause stomach problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Potatoes should be washed with its skin and then cut into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">This protects nutrient of potatoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">But if potatoes are cut into pieces and kept in water, vitamin B and C are spoiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">If pulses are boiled for longer period in low temperature, its protein becomes easily digestible.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">If milk is kept in sun light, vitamin B is lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Food nutrients are lost due to wrong process in preparation and cooking of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Similarly food becomes useless if it is preserved in dirty environment and with mismanagement.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">For this reason, special and careful attention should be given for the environment of kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Kitchen should be clean and well managed.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Healthy environment in kitchen is meant to keep or protect safe and healthy environment at kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">There is very close relation between food and health.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">A person's satisfaction in food and good health are closely linked with good nutrient food that are taken by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Good food means safe, attractive and tasty food.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">It is necessary to give attention on keeping good and proper environment at kitchen to prepare acceptable food for people.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Because if food is cooked in unclean or unhygienic environment, the prepared food can be harmful for health.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Many types of diseases can spread through food.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Men fall sick after taking contaminated food.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Even men can die having such kind of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">To avoid this situation the following instructions should be followed carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It is necessary to select fresh and pure food when purchasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">It is better to purchase sealed meat and foodstuff from recognized and reputed shops.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">One should be assured on purchasing of pasteurized milk and pure oil etc. Different types of bacteria can cause suffering to people.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">These can spread through foodstuff also.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">It is better to keep away from the persons who are suffering from cough, cold, fever etc from foodstuff.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The person who is cooking and serving food in the kitchen, he/she should maintain neat and clean environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It is better to cut one's fingernails regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">One should not use one's hand for scratching pimples and if one does one must wash one's hands before touching any food.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Every body should be aware of these matters.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Food can be contaminated by dust from air.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Even light and air have negative effect on food.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Flies can contaminate food by spreading bacteria on open food.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Those who are engaged in food preparation, cooking and serving, should be aware of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Foodstuff should be kept always under cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">When large amount of food is purchased it needs proper preservation.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It is better to preserve extra food as soon as possible leaving the amount needed for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">There should be good preservation system for example, dry food should be kept in good storage and perishable food should be preserved in a refrigerator.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">If perishable food is kept for longer period in an unprotect place, its food value will be spoiled and so there is a need to preserve it in a proper place as soon as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">For example, milk can not be kept for a longer period outside and it can be contaminated by bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Meat and fish also should not be kept in an unprotected place for longer period.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Foodstuff should not remain scattered in a storeroom or a kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">This will attract insects and will pollute the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">This matter needs careful attention.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Kitchen should be kept clean on regular basis.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Insects cannot spread bacteria if it is kept clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Insecticide is used to protect environment but it should be used very carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">It is very much harmful if insecticide is mixed with foodstuff.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Even men can die if he/she takes food mixed with insecticide.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Foodstuff should be kept in desired temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Otherwise it can get rotten easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Persons who are working in kitchen should maintain cleanliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">They should tie hair tightly, wear apron, and cut fingernails regularly during work in the kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">There should be an arrangement for sufficient water supply in the kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Proper arrangement should be made for storage of water and for drainage.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Waste should be cleaned on regular basis.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It is necessary to be cautious against using fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The oven must be turned off as soon as the cooking is over.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Wide space should be kept in the kitchen for free movement to avoid accidents.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">If the floor of the kitchen is broken, it should be repaired as soon as possible to prevent accidents from falling.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Floor should not kept in mud and wet condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Kitchen equipment should not be kept at an elevated place.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Electrical equipment should be used carefully in one hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">It is better to keep open the electrical wire connections after use.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">If electrical wire is cut off, it should be repaired or changed as soon as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Electrical wire or switch should not be touched with wet hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">It can cause serious accidents and people can even die.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">It is necessary to arrange sufficient lighting in work place (kitchen) and in the passage.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Proper arrangement should be made for lifting and bringing down heavy things.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Equipments or utensils should not be heaped up at one place.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">It can cause problem during the use of equipments.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The environment of the kitchen should be maintained in such a way that at the time of work no wastage, extra energy and accidents can happen.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">In this way healthy system can protect the kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The purpose of arranging the dinning table before having food is to make the process of taking food easier and comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">If plates, spoons, forks, glasses and other necessary things are properly arranged on table, it gives pleasure and satisfaction for eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">A table cloth with table mats should be placed on the dining table.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The table should be attractive with decorative flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">When food is distributed after preparation and placed before the diners, that system is called food service.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Satisfaction of having meal depends on the mode of serving of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">In modern civilized society, men are accustomed to enjoy life collectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It is necessary to create a well-balanced, calm and pleasant environment during meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The table should be well arranged so that utensils are placed systematically as per menu.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Food is also served in different methods as per occasion.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Some occasions are informal, some are formal and some are in between the two methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">It is not necessary to arrange dining table for informal or ordinary occasion.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">It is not always possible for all members in the family to eat together.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">On the other hand, in picnic, travel etc, food is served informally.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Formal occasion means state feast, social function, annual entertainment, family programmes like marriage ceremony, birthday, reunion etc. Besides, food arrangement in a hotel or a restaurant is also formal occasion.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">For each occasion, the table is arranged or decorated accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">On birthday, milad, office party, puja etc. food is served as per customs or also by the mixed method in between informal and formal occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">There are different types of food service systems also.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">For example, food service in working place for workers, for patients in hospital, tiffin for educational institutions, food service system for residential students, in transport during travel etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">In these cases, it is not necessary to arrange a table but the type of food service or distribution method is more important.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">In this case, food is served in different bowls.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Food is also kept warm in this system.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Meal receivers will take their food items on their dish as per choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">On many occasions foods are also served on tables.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Each person takes food on a plate according to his or her wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">This system is also called self-service.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Trays are kept in the corner of a canteen and a cafeteria of different organization, hospital, offices, and educational institutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Each person goes to a particular place with a tray and takes food according to his choice and then eats.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Sometimes food is decorated also in each tray.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">A meal receiver just picks the tray and then sits for eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">In different occasions like milad, social functions, seminars, programs in schools, colleges food is served in packets.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Snacks, lunch boxes can easily be served for many people.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">In general, every body should have proper knowledge on food service on different occasions like family programmes and formal programmes.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">At present, the system of formal feast among urban families is gradually disappearing due to workload and busy life.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">There is also a lack of domestic help or cook help.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">So, now -a-days any formal food or entertainment is arranged in hotels and restaurants.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">This is not our usual custom.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Rather it bears the identity of mixed culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Women should have an idea on different food management and distribution of food on different occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Method of distribution of food in different occasions may bring change in environment of meal or entertainment.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Such as, Food distribution process differs among people of different religion and sects.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">As per variation of food distributor, food environment may be different, such as- When a host or hostess serves food to the guests, there will be a very congenial or friendly atmosphere among guests and hosts.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Guests and hosts can enjoy food together if others like a maid or an employee of the host serve food.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">In this case, the size of dining table should be bigger or need enough space should be there for having meal all together.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">If the number of guests is more and accommodation is not enough, the buffet service may be introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">In this case, all types of utensils such as plates, spoons, napkins, glasses etc are kept in one corner of the dining table as per number of guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Food are placed also in the side of the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">There should be some space in between food dishes so that food can be taken easily with comfort.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Then guests can stand in a queue, pick up the plates and food of their own choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Flowers, branches of flower trees and leaves can be decorated on the middle of the dining table.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Guests can eat their food either by standing or by sitting on the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">If the number of guests is more, then water glass, spoon for desert should be kept on separate table.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">So guests can easily identify it and use it conveniently.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">There is an advantage of the buffet method when the number of guests is more.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">This method is now well accepted in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Method for food arrangement and decoration is shown in the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Decorating of dining table according to buffet system.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Snacks- list of snacks type food and price list of prepared food and its distribution Generally we take three main meals in a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">These are breakfast, lunch and dinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Our daily requirements for food calorie and nutrition are fulfilled through these meals.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">But we also take food in between meals.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">For example, we arrange for light tiffin or snacks if the period between breakfast and lunch is bit longer.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Again we arrange evening snacks or tea when the time between lunch and dinner is a bit longer.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">This type of light food that is taken in intermediary period is called snacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Generally people have a tendency of having snacks as drinks, fruits, fried food, salty or baked foods etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">In fact, snacks should not be taken too much as it destroys hunger or appetite for the next main meal i.e. lunch or dinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Snacks usually is chosen to pass time or to entertain friends and to talk to them or entertain casual guests or while on a journey.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Snacks such as drinks, fruits, and light food can be included on this occasion.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">In our country most of the snacks are foreign foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">In our country, ordinary families take muri makha, jhal muri, murki, chira bhaja, moa, naru, khoi, murki, tiler khaja, pitha puli, chanachur, puri, dhupi, etc in intermediate periods.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">On the other hand, rich families take cake, biscuit, chotpoti, fuchka, faluda, nimki, pizzas, samuchas, shingaras, fruit juice, chips crackers, toasts, cheese etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Besides, rich families, also serve sandwiches, french toasts, egg rolls, vegetable rolls, jam rolls, patties, pastries, chop cutlets, burgers, ice cream etc. to the guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Most of the sancks that are sold in This type of food is easily available at shops.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Distribution and service of this food are also easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">These are also nutritious and tasteful.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">People want to get different types of taste in intermediary snacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Snacks can be bought in small quantity and can easily be carried.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Special expertise is needed to cook such types of tasteful and standard food.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">These types of food should be packed in airtight packets so that they can be preserved for marketing.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Some foods need to be served in cold and some in warm condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Generally sweet foods are served as cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Fried and salty food should be kept in crispy and hot type of food should serve warm or it might need to get warmed again.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Any type of food can be prepared at home or can be purchased.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Purchased food is a bit expensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Again the same food when prepared at home in large quantity and sold, it can financially benefit that family.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Food should be distributed for marketing at competitive price.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The price should be fixed and reasonable so that the customers might not think it is high and at the same time the producer also should get some profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Food is also sold in shops and restaurants.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">In all cases, question of earning profit is important.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">It is irrational to sell food at high cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">It is impractical to get the same type of food at tk.10 at one shop and tk.50 in another shop.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">There should be a reasonable margin between the cost of preparation and the sell price.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">So, there should be a proper planning before the food is sold.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">For each serving of food, the desired quantity and its reasonable price should be fixed very carefully, so that customers have a positive feeling to purchase that product.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">But it has been observed that every seller has a different idea.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">So the same food is sold at different prices at different shops.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Hence the price varies mainly on the process of its fixation.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Two methods are mentioned below.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">In this method, sell price of food is fixed generally up to 2.5 times greater than the total cost of raw materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">This is because the preparation of food, bears many incidental costs.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">This cost remains hidden.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">So, for some food item the profit takes as about 40% and for some food 70% of costs.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">In this method, in addition to the cost of ingredients, the labour cost for production is also considered as cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The result of both costs is known as principal cost method.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">The sell price for food can be fixed at up to 1.5 times than the principal cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">In this case, more adjustment is maintained between production costs and sell price.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">For some food, profit is fixed on total quantity of food production and in other cases profit is counted on quantity served.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">For each serving of food if profit is taken at minimum rate, it is better accepted by the customers.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Otherwise, if profit is taken more in quantity it may create pressure on the customers.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">In luxury hotels or restaurants the cost of food is charged at a high rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Two methods of fixing food price are shown below: Conventional method Tk.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Principal cost method Tk.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Pithas are kept on trays and in paper boxes or paper sacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Any type of food can be packed and airtight by light cellophane.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">But warm food cannot be packed by it.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">It may spoil food and bad odour may come out.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">If food is covered by foil, it helps in airtight.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">It also can be warmed again by heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">But food is not burnt in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Paper packet is not airtight.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Food cannot be kept for a longer period in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Oil is soaked by paper; food gets cool and may be attacked by ants.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">In earthen pots, thick food can be kept warm for sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">But earthen pots are heavy and can easily be broken.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Food covered with cellophane and wrapping paper can be seen from outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">They usually remain fresh and are protected from dust and flies.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
