<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-homeEco-14</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.327</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">277</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2870</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">878</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t101">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">At the dawn of civilization human beings did not feel it necessary to wear clothes to cover themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">But later on, the cavemen felt it necessary to wear clothes in order to protect themselves from cold, heat and attack of wild animals and insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">At that time they used the bark and leaves of tree and skins of animals to cover their bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">As civilization flourished humans became intelligent and felt it necessary to cover themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Subsequently, clothes became necessary to guard against sickness and germs and a means to beautify oneself and show one's personality.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">In this way, clothes became man's basic necessity.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Through the years men developed a variety of textile materials and brought new ideas in clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">It may be observed that different textiles are used for different dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Different textiles are obtained from different thread that is obtained from yarn/fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">So, we should all learn about yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The smallest unit of thread is called yarn or fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Such as jute, cotton and animal yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">This yarn is necessary to make textiles or cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Thread is comprised of a network of the fibres or yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Weaving fibres or yarn together textile or cloth is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Textile is used for making different kinds of clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Men have found many types of yarn in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">But every yarn does not make good textile.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Yarn can vary according to source, size and quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">There are a number of special characteristics of yarn that make good textile.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The following are some useful The length of the yarn should be more than its breath.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Long fibre or yarn is useful for making thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Good quality textile or cloth is obtained from strong threads.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The fibres are joined together to make thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">So, if the fibres are longer the joints are also strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Yarn must be smooth and soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Cotton yarn is rougher and thicker than jute yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Asbestos is a rough mineral yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">So, clothing made out of cotton yarn is more useful than jute or asbestos yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The two qualities that a yarn should have which make textile are durability and flexibility.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">If the yarn breaks on pressure by it or twisting it is not useful for making textile or clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Yarn must have two other qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">These are power of absorption and power to retain colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The yarns that has the power to retain colour is useful as weaving yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Because with colour, different designs can be created in making textile or cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The yarn to be used for making clothing should have a brightness effect.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Silk has a natural brightness, but cotton yarn has to be made bright by adding chemicals.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">At the primary stage all yarn contains dirt, glue, gasten etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The best yarn is the one from which dirt can be cleaned easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The best yarn is the one that can withstand heat, pressure and acid application.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">In ancient times cotton, wool, silk and linen fibres were used in the textile industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">But later on nylon, rayon and other synthetic fibres are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">These fibres are very tiny but when put under the microscope, the difference in formation and length can be distinguished.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Plants - as these are obtained from plants, these are called plant yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">For example, cotton linen and jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Animals - as these are obtained from animals and are called animal yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">For example, silk and wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Mineral- these are obtained from minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">For example, asbestos and basalt.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">There is slight difference in all the fibres mentioned above.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Some are longer than the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">As such fibres are also classified according to their length- Staple fibre -those are fibres that are shorter in length are called staple fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Filament fibre- those fibres are longer in length are called filament fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Nylon and rayon are artificial fibres so these can be extended as per requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">According to its origin and structure every fiber has its own characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Due to their characteristics each fiber is used differently.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">So we should have a clear understanding of these characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">According to its origin chemicals called cellulose form plant fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Animal fibres such as silk is produced by the following substances, i.e. fibroen, sericin, glue.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">On the other hand, a substance called keratin sulphur produces woolen fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">There are certain types of fibres that have both plant and animal fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Yet others may be produced using chemical compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Here we see the external properties of a fibre, how it looks, what is its length and breadth, how smooth, rough, dull or bright it is, what is its texture, strength, heat conductivity, water absorbance power, and elasticity etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">With chemical application the natural properties of a fibre changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Various reactions occur with the application of acid and base to fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Heat and light also affect.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Cotton thread is obtained from cotton fibres or yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Most countries of the world produce cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The cotton supplying countries are USA, India, Russia, Egypt, Pakistan, Peru etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The soil and climate of Bangladesh is not very helpful for the cultivation of cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">So not much cotton is produced here.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The best cotton is produced in Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">From cotton flowers the seed pod produce cotton when ripe.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">This cotton is collected and the help of machine the seeds are separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">After processing the cotton is made into bundles and sent off to produce yarn and fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The length of cotton yarn may vary from 2cm-6.5cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Generally most yarns vary from 2cm-38cm in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Thin and long yarns make good quality fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Cotton yarn is not very bright.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">This yarn is treated with chemicals called mercerization to make it bright.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">So the mercerized yarn looks very shiny.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Cotton fibre is not as flexible as animal fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">As cotton, fibre is not so flexible, any folds/wrinkles on cotton fabric do not disappear easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">But cotton yarn is more flexible than linen yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The power of heat conductivity and connection is greater in cotton fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Being a good conductor of heat cotton fabric is very comfortable for use in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Single fibre is not so strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">To make it more durable cotton fibre is braided and plaited.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">When dipped in water its strength increases by 25%.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">So it is not damaged when washed roughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">If kept in a humid condition, mildew may form on cotton fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">It is resistant to insect attacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">No damage is caused to cotton fabrics by normal heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">As such it can be dried under the sun or ironed.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Strong light affects cotton fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">So excessive exposure to the ultra-violet ray of the sun damages the fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Hot water does not affect cotton fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">As such it can be dipped into boiling water mixed with soda.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Base does not affect cotton fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Strong and thick acids destroy cotton yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">If necessary, cold acid may be used on the cotton yarn and it must be immediately washed with water or base, so that effect of acid is lessened.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Sometimes, hydrochloric or oxylic acid is used on cotton fabric to remove stains.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Cotton fabric is not much affected by bleaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The power to retain colour in cotton fabric is not greater than animal fiber.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">But cotton fabric can retain colour better than linen.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">As cotton fabric is durable and comfortable, all countries favour it.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Cotton fabric is used in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">A variety of clothing are made by the fashion industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Cotton fabric can be taken care of easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Cotton fabric can be bought easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">So people from all income group can buy it easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">One disadvantage of cotton fabric is its shrinkage affect.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Cotton fabric can be easily dyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Linen is a material made from the fibres of the stems of the flax plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">This plant is about 1m in height.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">This fibre grows from the top of the plant to its roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The plant is cut and put into water and after a few days the fibre can be obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The best linen is obtained in Belgium, Russia, Germany, France, UK, Holland.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Switzerland also produces linen.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Linen fibre is longer than cotton fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Short fibres are joined together to make 5- 6m lengths of yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Linen can be found in different colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">But most linen is irony, tan or gray in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">As the exterior of the yarn is smooth, it has a high natural luster.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Linen yarn is stronger than cotton yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">When put in water it becomes stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It has very low elasticity.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Linen fabric is cooler than cotton fabric because it has heat conductivity property.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It is resistant to moths and insect attacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Chemical characteristics of linen In natural heat the colour of linen is not affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Comparatively light does not affect it much.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">But if kept for long time its yarn may be affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Thick acid has a bad affect on linen.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Soda, soap, bases do not affect linen.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Colour retention of linen is less than cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">All kinds of bleaching powder may be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It has the ability to absorb water.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">It can retain more moisture (20%) than cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Because it has heat conductivity property, it tends to dry out quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">As it easily shrinks it cannot be worn without ironing.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Linen fabric is durable, so it is very economical.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">As linen fabric has a high luster, it has great appeal.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Linen fabric is heat conductive and comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">It feels cool on touch.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">This can be used in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">In foreign countries, many sports clothing are made of linen.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Silk is a natural filament fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The length of silk fibre may be up to 400-600 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Silk is obtained from the cocoon of the silk worm by removing sericin, a kind of gelatine.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Japan produces most of the silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">But the Chinese first developed the production of silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Silk is also produced in Italy, India & England.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">In Bangladesh the best place for the production of silk is Rajshahi.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Silk yarn is collected in the following way: Silk obtained from the silk worm that is found in jungles and hedges and in the wild is called natural silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Silk that is obtained from the silk worm raised in a special place under strict planning and control is called sericulture.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Silk fibre is smooth and bright.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The fibre is very strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">After nylon, silk is the strongest fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The elasticity of this fiber is greater than the elasticity of cotton or linen fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Silk fibre is more durable than cotton fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">But in water silk becomes less durable.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Moth does not damage their fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">But other insects may destroy/damage this fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Mildew may from on silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Chemical characteristics of silk Light has a bad effect on silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Silk turn yellowish if kept under excessive heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Silk is a bad conductor of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">So, we feel hot when we wear silk clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Silk can retain colour easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">So, silk does not get discoloured easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Strong acids may damage silk, but weak acids do not cause any harm.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Weak bases cannot damage silk, but strong bases may cause damage.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Weak bleaching may be used on silk, but chlorine bleaching will damage it.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">It shrinks when it comes in contact with heat, pressure and moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">It shines when it is washed in hot water.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Silk is a prestigious fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Due to its beautiful texture it is known to be a luxury item.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Silk comes in a variety of colours and designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Due to the length of the fibre, silk clothing is durable.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">If kept in good condition it has a long life.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Silk clothing is more comfortable than cotton clothing and remains warmer.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Silk is used for inside lining of a coat.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Silk clothing is lightweight and takes less space for storing.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Silk is very expensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">But if silk is mixed with rayon and nylon the price falls.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Wool is an animal staple fibre (short in length).</sent>
				<sent id ="187">It is obtained from the hair or fur of various animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">It is collected from the hair or fur of live and dead animals such as sheep, goat (Angora, Alpaca, Mohair, Kashmir) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">It is then processed in the factory to form wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The best wool is produced in Australia.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Other countries where wool is produced are Spain, France, Germany, UK, Argentina, NZ, USA, (western countries where the temperature is low).</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The length of wool fibre may vary from 1.5-14 (4-36cm) and its design is like fish scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Natural wool may be white, reddish, brown or yellowish in color.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Wool is not very bright in its natural form.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Wool is soft and highly elastic.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">When pulled it becomes longer and when released it comes back to its original form.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Moth destroys wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Mildew also has a bad affect on wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Chemical characteristics of wool It shrinks with heat, pressure and moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">It being a bad conductor of heat, it is very useful as winter clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">It retains colour very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Small quantity of bleaching may be applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Due to space between fibre it can retain air.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">It is a good conductor of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">So when we wear woollen clothes we feel warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">When put in water it loses its strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">It retains moisture very slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">But it can retain lots of moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">So it does not dry very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Light acid does not affect wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Light base does not affect wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Wool is a favourite clothing for winter all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Quilt, shawl and sweater etc are essential for all of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The slight brightness of good wool attracts us.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Different colours can be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It cannot be folded easily, but if folded once it can retain the fold for a very long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">As such wool is very useful for making suits.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">It does not have wrinkles easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">So it is a good material for making trousers.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Generally, wool does not retain water.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">So if water falls on it, it will slide down.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Wool may be used for different purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Artificial wool used in the 19th century is known as rayon now a days.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">This fibre is obtained from nature and chemically processed to make rayon fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Scientists who discovered rayon are Count Hilary and Lois Henry of France and British chemists Cross, Beval and Bedle.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The cellulose obtained from pulp of trees and cotton biters is chemically processed to produce rayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Rayon is produced in many countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">In Bangladesh there is a rayon factory in Chandraghona of Ctg.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Hill Tracts district.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">At first the raw material is boiled into a semi liquid form.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">After this the fibre forming liquid is forced through tiny holes in a nozzle.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Finally these cool down to form fibre. Rayon is a man-made fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">So the length of the fibre can be determined during production.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Viscose rayon is yellowish in colour, acetate rayon is colourless and cuprammonium rayon is white in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">This fibre is beautiful, smooth and tiny.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">It has a brightness of its own.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">If it is wet it loses its strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">But if it is dried it becomes strong again.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Its strength is less than silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">It is less elastic than silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Chemical characteristics of rayon Acetate rayon can resist light.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Natural light does not affect viscose or cuprammonium rayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Acetate rayon dissolves with excessive heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">As such, rayon fabric cannot be ironed using hot iron, if it dissolves, it attaches itself into other material.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The other two types of rayons also dissolve in excessive heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Weak acid does not affect rayon, but if heat is also applied to rayon it becomes weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Weak base reduces the brightness of acetate rayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">But the other two types of rayon are not affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">It reacts to mineral salts.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">As such mineral salts are added to diminish the excessive brightness of rayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Viscose and cuprammonium rayon can retain colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">But special process has to be applied to add colour to acetate rayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Sometimes mould is formed but insects cannot destroy it.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">c. Usefulness of rayon It is a popular fabric because it can be used in different circumstance, time and activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">It can be mixed with other yarn to make fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Rayon is comparatively long lasting and cheap and can be bought at a variety of prices.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">It can be made attractive by adding various degrees of brightness.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Nylon fibre Nylon is a filament fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Among the artificial fibres, nylon is the most important.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Its basic elements are carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Nylon is produced from coal, water and air by a process called polymerization.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Under the microscope nylon looks like cuprammonium rayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Nylon is a very strong fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">When put in water it loses 15% of its strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Its weight is very less.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Nylon is highly elastic.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">It does not retain moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Mildew and mould do not affect it.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Chemical characteristics of nylon It meets when it comes into contact of sulfuric acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Base does not affect nylon.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Different colours can be added to it, just like rayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Normal light does not affect nylon, but excessive exposure in sunlight will damage it.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">It becomes soft when heat is applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Iron should be moderately warm in case of ironing.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Nylon is long lasting and durable.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Since nylon is strong and light, under garments and socks are made of nylon.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">It can be taken care of very easily and washed and dried for regular use.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
