<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-homeEco-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.493</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">256</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3967</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">983</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t107">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">To meet the daily demand of food, the farmers produce different kinds of food by working very hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Bangladesh is a country with a variety of seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Paddy, wheat, corn, pulses, oilseeds etc. are grown widely in the country in different seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Considering their use, food value and sources, these crops are categorized in different groups; i.e. the cereal group-paddy, wheat, corn etc, the oilseeds groups and the pulses groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">After harvesting, these are needed to be processed and stored properly to be used as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Generally, these activities are done by the rural women and usually all these activities are performed by applying traditional methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">As a result, this affects quality and quantity of crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The post harvest loss of crops in Bangladesh is estimated to be 15% to 20% of the total amount.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">At present, efforts are being made to use modern technology in every stage for processing crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Post harvest processing of crops includes threshing and drying.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Appropriate technology are being used in most of the cases.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Post harvest loss of crops may be reduced to a great extent by applying the appropriate technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">So, in this chapter, concentration will be given on some of the essential aspects of post harvest processing, like threshing, drying and storing of crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">If there is a small quantity of paddy, few bundles of paddy are taken together and the paddy from the stalks are separated by repeatedly throwing them on a solid place or on pucca floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">When there is a large quantity of paddy, the bundles are loosen and placed in a circular shape on a neat and clean courtyard and then these are threshed under the hoof of the cows.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In this method, 4-6 cows are driven on the heap of the paddy stalk in a circular manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">This is called threshing of paddy.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The rural womenfolk along with men usually participate in this activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The separated paddy are blown against the wind with the help of winnow or sieve.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">By this method, paddy is separated form the immature paddy and broken straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">This is called winnowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">This is the traditional way of threshing.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Presently, to reduce wastage of paddy, the threshing machine is being used.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The machine is propelled by foot, but in some cases power driven thresher is also used.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">It helps to thresh a huge quantity of paddy by using a minimum time and energy and this sort of threshing minimizes the wastage.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">This machine is widely used in the villages at present.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">One person is enough to drive this machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Teeth with spikes are arranged on the cylinder of the paddle thresher.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">When the paddle is pressed, the cylinder begins to move rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The bundles of the paddy are placed on the cylinder by moving them upward and downward.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The bundles of the paddy move forward and backward against the revolving cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Thus the grains are separated from the stalk and these fall on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The formation of the power driven thresher is almost the same as the paddle thresher.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">It is driven by engine or motor.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The bundles of the paddy are put on the cylinder in the same way as it is done in the paddle thresher.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Some power driven thresher are fastened with a revolving chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">One person continuously puts the bundle of paddy in the feeding chute where the cylinder revolves round 520 times in a minute and threshes the paddy while the grains and the straws are separated by the winnowing fan.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Threshing and winnowing are done nicely at the same time by this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">After threshing and winnowing comes drying.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Generally, the paddy sheafs are dried under the sunshine by spreading them out on the floor of a clean yard or pucca floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">If the weather is bad, the paddy cannot be dried in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">As a result, the crops might get damaged.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Besides, the part of the crops may be wasted by cows, goats, hens and ducks if it is dried in the yard in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">For that reason modern method of drying is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">That is the drying machine is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">This machine can be used for drying all kinds of cereal crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Wheat is an important cereal crop in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">To prevent losses of crops, after collection, care should be taken in the process of threshing and winnowing of wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">When the wheat attains maturity, the stalks dry up.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">After harvesting, the bundles of wheat are heaped up in the yard for threshing.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Threshing should be done as early as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Sunny days are suitable for threshing wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Placing the bundle of wheat on a piece of wood or on a pucca floor, the grains of wheat are separated from the stalks by hitting them with a bamboo stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Besides, the wheat can also be threshed under the feet of the bullock as in the case of paddy and then winnowing is done by pouring them against the blowing wind using the winnow or sieve.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">But, now- a- days, threshing and winnowing of wheat can also be done by using machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">This reduces the loss of the crops and also saves time and energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">That is, more wheat can be threshed using less time and labor.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">This machine can be driven manually (using foot) or by power.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Same threshing machine can be used for both wheat and paddy.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">But the machine is used differently in the case of wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The threshing machine used for paddy has got the cylinder with spikes.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">These spikes are not required in the cylinder during the threshing of wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The cylinder revolves anti clockwise and a bent sieve is placed below the cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The bundles of wheat are put in the machine as the machine runs, the cylinder revolves continuously and the grains get detached from the stalks by friction.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Then the grains of wheat are cleaned by sieve.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">After separating and cleaning, the grains of wheat are dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Generally, the wheat grains are dried in sunshine by spreading them on a clean yard or pucca floor or on a mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The grains are stored after drying them several times.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">If the weather is unfavourable, wheat grains can also be dried up by using modern drying machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">When the water content of the grains comes down to 12%-13%, it is considered that the grains dried up enough and they become suitable for storing.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The rural womenfolk can check the dried grains by pressing them under the teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">If these give a crushing sound, these are well dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In Bangladesh different kinds of pulses like masur, mung, muskalai, chola, motor, khesari, arahar etc. are grown throughout the year at different times.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Post harvest processing and storing methods for all kinds of pulses are almost the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But care should be taken to keep the threshing and drying place of the yard in a good condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">To keep the threshing and drying place in a good condition, a coating of cow dung may be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The threshing and drying place should be disinfected, otherwise, the pulses might get infected and become unfit for human consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The low quality of pulses fetches low prices.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">After harvesting the pulses, it is better to keep them in heaps on the yard for 2/1 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">When these are dried with the plants, the pulses are separated by striking them with a stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But if the quantity is a large one, these may be threshed by cows.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Then the grains are separated and cleaned by using a winnow and sieve.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Now-a-days, modern threshing machine is also used for threshing and winnowing of pulses at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">This expedites the whole process and prevents the post harvest loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The pulses are dried up in the sun shine for several days and then they are stored inside a container having a good lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The oilseeds like mustard, linseeds and peanuts are grown abundantly in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">These are grown in different seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The seeds of mustard, linseed, til, sunflower are very small in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">So, for avoiding the loss of the crops, extra care is needed to be taken for collecting these seeds form the field and then threshing and drying them out.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The threshing and drying process of mustard, til, linseeds etc. are almost the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">But threshing and winnowing process of peanut is different.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">After harvesting, these crops are needed to be dried well in the yard for several days.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Then the seeds are separated from the beans by striking them smoothly with a stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">If the quantity of crops is huge, these are threshed with the help of bullocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Then these are cleaned with the winnow or sieve.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">These oil seeds can also be threshed by the threshing machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">This prevents the loss of the crops and threshing could be done by using less time and labor.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The paddy threshing machine can be used for threshing oil seeds but the method of using is a little bit different.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The spikes which are used in the cylinder during the threshing of paddy are removed when the oil seeds are threshed.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The cylinder revolves anti clockwise.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">A tray is placed below the cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The stalks are put against the cylinder and the seeds are separated from the bean through friction.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Winnowing is done with the help of the sieve at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">To avoid the scattering of seeds, the threshing machine usually has a cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">This cover helps to prevent the loss of seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">After threshing and winnowing, the oilseeds are dried on a clean yard or pucca floor or in dala or mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Otherwise, there may be a risk of wastage.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">These will be well dried up if they are spread under the sunshine for 2/3 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">If the weather is not favourable for drying, the drying machine can be used for drying the seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">If the dry sun flower is rubbed with another dry sunflower, the seeds will be separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Besides, the seeds can also be separated by striking the flower smoothly with a stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Then the seeds are cleaned by winnowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The separated sun flower seeds are dried up by spreading them thinly on the pucca floor using mat, dala, etc. and then these are stored.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Groundnut contains 48%-50% fat and 24%-25% protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Groundnut seeds are quite different from other oil seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Though oil is extracted from groundnut as edible oil, seeds are directly consumed in many countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">It is a common practice in Bangladesh to take fried seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The seeds of groundnut are grown in the roots of the plant under the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">So care is needed to be taken to uproot the plant from the ground and then to separate the seeds from the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">After collecting the nuts from the field, these are needed to spread on the yard for drying.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">If the groundnut seeds have soils on the body, they are needed to be cleaned as far as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The groundnut seeds contain 50%-60% water just after harvesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">So they are allowed to dry up in a mild sunshine for 4-5 days and then stored in the godown.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The groundnut seeds with a thin skin are processed for making them suitable for use.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The water content of the groundnut seed is needed to be reduced down from 50%-60% to 20%-25% before crushing.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Both manual and power driven machines are available for crushing groundnut seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Here is the groundnut crushing machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">This machine is suitable for separating the seeds from the nuts.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">There are three parts; hopper, wheel attached with rubber and sieve.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">For threshing, groundnut seeds are put in the hopper and the driver rotates the handle to make the wheel revolve, both the threshing and winnowing are done due to friction of wheel with the sieve.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The hand driven wheel revolves 65 times per minutes and the machine can thresh 70-80kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">groundnut per hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The structure and main parts of the power driven machine are almost the same as the hand driven one, but it is larger in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">If the machine is driven by power, the wheel revolves 300 times per minute and 209 kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">groundnuts can be threshed and winnowed in one hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Corn is a cereal crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Each plant generally has got one shoot.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">But some plants may have more than one shoot.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The grains of the corn are arranged in the shoot in an elongated way.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The grains cannot be separated by hand from the shoot.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Grains from the shoot are separated mechanically.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Then the shoots are allowed to dry and then kept in the open air for that purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The coverings of the shoot are separated first and then grains are opened for drying.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">If it rains during the harvesting period, the covering of the shoot should be separated and in this way they should be protected from rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">If the shoots get wet they should be dried in the air for 1/2days rather than putting them in the sunshine.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Like the drying of paddy, pulses and other cereal crops, the shoots of corn can also be dried by spreading them loosely on a dry yard or clean floor and moving them to and fro after some time of interval.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The drying pot or tray made of metal is placed above the ground for drying the shoots of corn.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Then the shoots are placed in 2-3 layers keeping provision for adequate ventilation so that air can pass from bottom to top and through the layers of shoots.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">If these are covered with plastic sheet as a tent, drying can be done even in the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">This system is like the process of drying bamboo leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">In this method the coverings of the shoots are not completely separated from the shoots; rather they are tied on the opposite direction and hung.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">2-4 shoots are twisted together and they are allowed to dry up hanging on the fence, hanging wire or rope.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">When the shoots are dried up well, the grains can be separated from the shoots.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">It is difficult to separate the grains from the shoot by hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">So threshing machine is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">It may be a small hand driven machine or a big power driven one.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Sitting on the seat, the driver of the machine can move the handle by the right hand and place put the shoots inside the cylinder and can separate 30-35 kg. of corn per hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Many shoots can be put at a time in the power driven threshing machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The threshing machine is run by electric motor.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">One person pours certain quantity from containers, trays or sacks inside the hopper and the grains are separated due to the friction produced by the revolving cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The shoots come out by a separate passage and the grains are collected on the tray under this cylinder through the holes.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">If the grains are not fully dried up at the time of separation form the shoots, they are needed to be spread on the clean floor, yard or on a mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">As the grains of corn are little bit bigger than the other grains, it takes several days to complete the drying process.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">After drying, they are stored in pots with cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">For meeting the daily demands of food, different kinds of food crops, such as rice, pulse, wheat, pea etc. are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Again for making them suitable for human consumption and for cooking, different kinds of spices like turmeric, pepper, coriander, ginger, onion, garlic, mustard, etc. are also required.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">These crops grow in different seasons of the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">In the harvesting season of the year, the crops are easily available and the price is also comparatively low.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">So it is better to purchase those essential commodities in that season.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">But it is not enough to procure the commodities, they have to be stored in such a way so that their food value is maintained and these are suitable for consumption throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Otherwise, there is a risk of loss rather than profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Both the crops and spices are to be stored properly for that purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Besides, the service holder families who live in town and cities, usually purchase essential food crops and spices for 1/2 months at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">We get rice after husking paddy.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The rice which we get after husking the parboiled paddy is called the parboiled rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">We can also husk paddy without parboiling.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">This kind of rice is called atap rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Whatever may be the kinds of rice, if they are not properly stored, fungus may grow in it and then the rice becomes discoloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Besides, without proper storing, different kinds of insects may grow in rice which deteriorate the quality of rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Thus the food value of rice will decrease and the taste will lessen as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">It has been seen that during rainy season, the probability of fungus and insect attack becomes much more higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">These aspects should be considered carefully for storing rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">After husking, if the rice is stored along with husk and bran, they remain in good condition for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The winnowed rice may also be stored in drums or tin containers with a good lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">If some dried pepper/chili, some garlic and some dried Neem leaves are kept in the rice drum, the rice is protected from the attack of insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">It should be kept in mind that rice for daily consumption should be stored in a separate pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Stored rice should be checked after some interval of time and if needed, these rice should be dried again in the sunshine and stored in a drum or a tin container.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">After fully drying up, the pulses like masur, mung, mushkalai etc.can be stored at home in a drum or tin container with a covering and those remain in good condition for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">These can be used during bad days and serve the whole year till the harvesting of new pulses.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">It will be in a good condition if these are stored without husking.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">In that case, a small amount of pulse may be husked at a time and then stored in a tin container considering the requirement for 2/1 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Wheat can also be preserved like rice in drums or tin containers after drying them up fully.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">These should be dried in the sunshine after some intervals.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Delicious foods like kichuri and halim are prepared from wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Besides wheat is also used for preparing bread and different kinds of snacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Suji and flour are made from wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">So wheat should be stored in such a way that it can be used as flour in any time through crushing.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Gram grows well in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">In our country, these are used in preparing various breakfast and iftari items.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Peeling off the cover of the gram, it is widely used as pulses.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">After drying properly during the harvesting time, these are to be stored in a tin container with cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Insect attack may happen in the stored gram if the humidity in the air is high or the water content of the gram becomes high in some ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">So care should be taken in this regard.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The preserved gram should be checked after some intervals and these should be dried again and preserved in a tin container.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Like gram pea is also widely used in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Pea is used for preparing Chatpati.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">It is also used as pulse after crushing.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">After drying well, peas can also be preserved in drums or tin containers having with good cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It should be checked after some intervals and dried up again and stored in a drum or a tin container.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The preservation of mustard is quite easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">After harvesting the crops, if these are dried up well and stored in a tin container with lid, these remain in good condition for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Like mustard, coriander can be preserved in a tin containers after drying them up well.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">After harvesting and processing, turmeric is to be dried up and then can easily be stored in a clean tin container with lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">This spice is to be crushed before using.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Many of the housewives get the turmeric crushed at a time for the requirements of 2 to 3 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The crushed turmeric can be preserved in a glass or plastic jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">More care is needed to be taken for storing chillies, as chillies absorb water from the air and easily get spoiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">So, chillies should be properly dried up and kept in a container with lid or cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">It should be checked after some time intervals and dried up again.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Chillies are used in cooking after crushing by hand or machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The crushed chillies are to be preserved in a glass or plastic jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Otherwise, there is a risk of coagulation of chilli powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Ginger is a perishable commodity.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">It is an important spice for preparing any Bengali dish.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Special cares are needed to be taken for its preservation.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Otherwise, gingers get dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Matured ginger should be stored and kept in a cool place of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">If it is kept in an earthen pot with sand, it will remain in good condition for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Many people preserve ginger in a tub and use it throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Onion is also a perishable crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">If the shredded, crushed or more juicy onions are preserved, these can easily get spoiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Besides, if the storing place is a bit hot, the onions may get spoiled easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">These should be stored in a cool place with adequate air after drying up the excess juice of the onion.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">These remain in good conditions for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The stored onion should be cleaned after some time interval.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">If there are some spoiled onions in the store, these should be discarded and then the rest will be in good condition for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Since the ancient age, garlic is used for making the dish delicious.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Preservation of garlic at home is a bit easier than that of onions.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">After drying them up in the sunshine, if the garlic is hanged in bundles, it remains in good condition throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Besides, the garlic may also be separated from the plants like onions and preserved for a long time keeping them on the floor or a platform.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">It is not possible to preserve more crops at a time at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">There is a problem of space.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Most of the time, a limited quantity of crops is stored due to the shortage of manpower.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Lack of proper knowledge of preservation may hamper the storage process If there is lack of knowledge about the crops to be preserved, they cannot be preserved for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Lack of applying modern scientific method of preservation of crops at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Problems arise in preserving crops during natural calamities like cyclones, floods, rain fall etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Appropriate measures should be taken at the right time to overcome all the disadvantages.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Prior to the harvesting time of particular crops, preparation for harvesting and processing and preservation of crops should be undertaken.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Adequate manpower should be employed.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Proper guidelines should be formulated for the preservation of crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Arrangement should be made so that different kinds of crops could be stored in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Some crops like potato, onion etc. are perishable commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">So, in this regard precautionary advice may be taken from the agricultural experts.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">For the preservation of crops during natural disaster like cyclone, flood, etc. the people should come forward and may develop some strategy jointly to overcome the situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The tools of preservation like glass, tin pot, plastic pot, etc. should be washed with hot water, dried up and used.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The names of the spices should be written on the body of the jar or container for using them properly.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
