<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-homeEco-16</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.377</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">206</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2865</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">872</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t103">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">It is a natural and eternal desire of human beings to present themselves in an attractive way before others.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This desire is achieved by dressing up their body in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Body means one's physical structure and health and dressing up means tidiness in clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">When a person possesses a good physical body and dresses up appropriately, that person becomes more attractive than others.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The very first thing that a person requires to be attractive is the possession of a healthy body.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">In order to possess a healthy body, we need to keep our body clean and take good care of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The main discussion on personal hygiene and tidiness in clothing are discussed in details in this chapter.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The human body consists of many organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The different organs are hands, legs, teeth, eyes, nails, ears, nose, neck, hair, skin etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Cleanliness and care of these organs are called personal hygiene.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">There is an inseparable relationship between personal health and personal hygiene.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Similarly, cleanliness of clothing also has a relationship with personal health.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Health is wealth and a source of happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">If the body remains healthy, a person can enjoy life.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">A healthy person has unlimited work power and happiness of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Health is not only a personal wealth but a national wealth as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Because, sick people cannot build a nation that is best in education and cultural activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Moreover a healthy person is himself beautiful, a maker of beautiful things and a worshipper of beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">In this way a healthy person can establish himself in society as an attractive person.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In order to be healthy and attain good health, a person should take care of each organ of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">In general terms, the objective of personal hygiene is to keep one's body healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">If we observe very closely, we will see that a person who takes care of his teeth has a well-structured set of teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">His smile and words become attractive to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Similarly, a person with beautiful hair and skin becomes attractive to other by wearing decent clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In the eyes of an artist, the main objective of being attractive to others is the maintenance of personal hygiene.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">When we talk about personal hygiene, the first thing that comes to mind are our hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Because when we do any work, we have to use both our hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">So others see our hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">It may also be said that hands can attract others.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The hands become dirty, as we have to do many types of work with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">So everybody should take care of his or her hands after doing some work.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">We should wash our hands with soap to keep our hands clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Due to our workload if we have to wash our hands often, we should use a mild soap that contains less base and wipe our hands with a soft towel.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Due to excessive use of soap, our hands may become rough and cracked.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">As such, during winter we should use lotion, glycerin, cold cream or oil after washing our hands to keep them smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">While chopping vegetables, our hands get stained and also during cooking our hands get stained with turmeric and other spices.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">So we should be careful about these stains.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">It is better to wear gloves during chopping and cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">This will keep our hands clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">To keep our hands strong, well built and operational we can do some hand exercise early in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Of all the organs legs become dirty because of walking.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">So we should clean our legs regularly and take good care of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">If we do not clean our legs regularly, our heels get cracked and those dirt may accumulate and cause damage to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">When we return home everyday we should wash our legs with lukewarm water and soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">If all the dirt is not washed we should use an old toothbrush to take off the dirt.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">After washing we should dry our feet with a towel and apply lotion, glycerin and oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">This will help to keep our sole and skin of feet very smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">It is best not to walk with bare feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Many people suffer from cracked feet and hands in the winter, so we should take good care of ourselves to avoid this problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">It is said that teeth are a valuable treasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">We use our teeth to chew our food.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Teeth also enhance the beauty of our face.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">A beautiful set of teeth and bright smile with shiny teeth and words is pleasing to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">So it is necessary to clean our teeth to keep them healthy and long lasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">When we chew our food, some parts of the food get stuck between our teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">So it is necessary that we gargle after eating so that the food particles come out.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Otherwise these food particles will come in contact with saliva and start to rot.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Then in turn, it will cause foul smell in the mouth, cause toothache and stomachache.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">So it is necessary to brush our teeth before going to bed at night and after getting out of bed in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Many people in the villages use the branches of neem and other trees like babla and joitun to clean their teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">At present these are also available in the cities.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">These branches are very useful to clean our teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Due to the advancement of science in the present day most people in the cities and villages use toothbrush, toothpaste and tooth powder to clean their teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In that case, we must be careful that the toothbrush is not very sharp and hard, the brush reaches all parts of our teeth and that all food particles are cleaned properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Some people use ash, coal, and brunt clay to clean their teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">These actually damage their teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The enamel of the teeth gets destroyed and the teeth get decayed and come off prematurely.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It must be remembered that the first step to get a well-structured and bright set of teeth is to have a clean mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Among the five senses in humans i.e eyes, ears, nose, tongue and skin, the greatest are our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">As the saying goes, he who has no eyes has nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Without eyes a person cannot enjoy the beauty of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Besides this, beautiful eye sight also helps a person to attain a beautiful personality.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Among all the organs in a human body, the eyes are the most delicate, complicated and sensitive organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">A slight carelessness can cause serious damage to our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Strong and very bright light or less or dim light, both can damage our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">If we want to take good care of our eyes, we must wash our eyes with cold water every morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">There are certain rules to be followed, if we want to keep our eyes healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">These are- when we read or do any other delicate or minute work we must see that there is appropriate light.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">While reading or sewing we must keep a reasonable distance from the object.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The best distance from the eyes is about 10-12 inches.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It is not advisable to read very small, hazy or illegible writing.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">It is also advisable to rest the eyes after study or sewing for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">If we keep our eyes closed for a few minutes, the eyes get some rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Blue and green help the eyes to overcome stress.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">As such, it is necessary to stare at the green grass and trees for the benefit of our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">We must eat foods that contain Vitamin-A.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">If tears come out of our eyes, or if they scratched or become swollen, we should immediately consult a doctor.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">In order to be healthy, it is very important to take care of our nails.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">If our nails become big, dirt will accumulate in our nails very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">If we do not clean the dirt in time, this will go into our stomach while eating and cause stomach problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">If we touch food with dirty fingernails, many germs will get into the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Many people bite their nails with their teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">This is a very bad habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">If we bite our nails, the shape of the nails become bad and also the dirt goes into our mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">If the nails are not in good shape, these cannot be decorated.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The hands look ugly.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Even if ornaments are worn, the hands do not look attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">So in order to look decent we must take care of our nails.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">To take care of our nails regularly we should use a nail-cutter, scissors and brush.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The nails may break or become stained due to various illnesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">In that case, we should consult a doctor.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">If we eat foods that contain calcium, phosphorus and protein, our nails remain healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Hair is a symbol of beauty for the Bengali women.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Shiny, smooth, thick and dark hair enhances the beauty of the face and attracts others.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Beautiful smooth hair is a sign of beautiful mild mannered personality.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">For these reasons, we should take care of our hair together with our clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">We must take care of our hair regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">We should wash our hair with mild soap, water of soaked mushur dal (lentil) and shampoo.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">We should wash our hair once a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">We should regularly brush our hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This enables blood circulation at the base of the hair and makes them strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">If we regularly brush our hair then dirt, dandruff and lice attack will be at a minimum.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">In order to get rid of dandruff and dead skin, we can wash our hair with limejuice, water boiled with neem leaves, amloki, yoke of egg and ground methi.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">We should apply oil in our hair to keep it strong and smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">If the hair is thick and tangled we should use our fingers to apply oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Each one should use a different comb.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Otherwise one person's dandruff or lice may be transferred to another person.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Nutritious foods with vitamins should be eaten to have shiny hair and to avoid hair loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">To keep one's body healthy it is necessary to take care of the ears, the nose and the throat.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Like the ears, the nose and the throat are placed very close to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">They are specially related.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Due to cough and cold these organs become badly affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">We breathe through our nose.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Dried mucus forms dirt inside the nostrils.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We should clean our ears and nose with cotton buds regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">We can also use mustard oil to soften the dirt and clean it easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">If water or insect gets into the ear we should immediately consult a doctor.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Loud noise may damage the eardrum and make us deaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">To keep our voice sweet we should always control our voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">If we catch cold, we should refrain from speaking.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">In this condition we should use hot water and salt to gargle our throat.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">But if this condition becomes persistent, we should consult a doctor.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">We should remember that speaking in a sweet voice our personality becomes attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The external covering of a human body is the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Naturally the smoothness and beauty of the skin comes into focus first of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The smoothness of the skin shows the signs of a healthy body.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The beautiful skin together with decent clothes enhances the personality.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Cleanliness is the first step to take care of the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The care, cleanliness and health of the skin depend on bathing regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">We should change our sweat soaked clothes everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">We should never use very hot or very cold water while bathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Mild soap should be used for bathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Soft towel should be used to clean and wipe our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">We should wash our hands each time we come home from outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">We should use olive oil, glycerin and cream to keep our skin smooth and soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">For rough skin we should apply milk cream, orange peel and raw turmeric paste to make the skin soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In the winter when the skin becomes dry, we should take good care of our skin then.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">To keep our skin beautiful, smooth and bright we should eat foods that contain protein, vitamins, mineral salts and also drink a lot of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">This avoids constipation, pimples and other skin diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Girls should take good care of their skin during their menstrual period.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">They should bathe everyday and change all clothes everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">On this depends the beauty and health of a girl's skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">To bring completeness in our physical appearance and clothing we should keep all our organs, clean, beautiful and healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">If we do not stand or sit in an upright position even our fine clothes will not be visible to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Crooked physical posture is bad for health.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">A good physical posture builds our physique and enhances the beauty of our clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">So we should be careful about how our children stand, sit and walk.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">We should try to know what others think about our physical posture.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Then we should see ourselves in a mirror and try to rectify our posture.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">We lose our personality if we stand in a bunched position.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">We should stand straight on our two feet, keep both feet parallel, keep both shoulders straight, hold our chin high and keep our eyes to the front.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">To sit in a slouched position means to have a bad physical structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">To sit properly we must see that the height of the chair and table are comfortable for our work.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">When sitting, to keep our backbone straight we should sit up and keep our back and waist pushed against the backrest of the chair.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We should hold our head and chin high.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">To get up from the chair we should place our feet one in front and the other at the back and then get up.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">To keep ourselves healthy and beautiful our walking posture should be easy and comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">If we walk in a slouched position , we would have a bad effect on our physical appearance.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">We should try to keep our various organs clean and at the same time see that our clothes are also clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">A person's health depends on the cleanliness of clothes because clothes are attached to a person's body.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">So it is necessary to wear clean clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">We can never be decent if we wear dirty cloths.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">So each person should wear clean clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Sometimes it is seen that some people wear clean clothes on the outside and wear dirty under garments.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">It is absolutely necessary to wash and clean our under garments to maintain personal hygiene.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">It is not wise to keep the used cloths in a crushed manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">In order to maintain cleanliness of clothing we should regularly wash them, iron them, repair them and keep them stainless.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">We can achieve tidiness by bringing together a person with his clothing and cosmetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">To bring tidiness we should take care of our clothes by washing, ironing and mending them.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">We should also choose and wear contemporary clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Tidiness in a person blossoms when that person maintains personal hygiene, possesses a good physical posture, speaks articulately, wears contemporary clothes, dresses up fashionably and maintains a decent wardrobe of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It is not necessary to wear expensive clothes to look decent and tidy.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Wearing up to date clothes and keeping the hair tidy make a person look decent and tidy.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">So we should maintain certain rules to achieve decency.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">These are rules of tidiness,for example:- We should always wear clothes that suit us.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">This means that when choosing clothes we should keep in mind the person's age, body structure and skin colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">This is because all types of clothes do not suit all people.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">We have to keep an artistic mind in choosing our clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">A person can also be attractive on special occasion by wearing simple clothes added with light cosmetics and jewellery.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">So it is possible to achieve decency in wearing clothes by choosing the right colour, design or jewellery.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">It is advisable to discard socially unacceptable costumes or dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Wearing contemporary and new designed clothes in a modest and tasteful manner is pleasing to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">As a result the person wearing these clothes becomes happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">It is very important to see that the colour, lines and material are in unison so that it looks decent.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">For example, the blouse should be in good combination with the saree, the orna should match with the salwar-kameez.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">This will prove the taste of the person wearing these clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">To bring decency in clothes, other accessories must also be chosen with care.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">These include shoes, handbags, handkerchiefs, jewellery and cosmetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Not wearing shoes spoils the show.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Wearing sponge sandals with expensive clothes look bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">On the other hand, wearing pencil heels with school uniforms also looks tasteless.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The handbags and handkerchiefs should also match with the colour of the costume.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Decent and matching jewellery and cosmetics should be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Light make up and cosmetics should be used during the day rather than the night.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">On the whole, decent and matching clothes and cosmetics should always go hand in hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">These may be called the rules of tidiness/decency in dressing up.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
