<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-homeEco-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.542</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">469</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">8388</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1803</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t108">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">A child of today is the father of tomorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This universally true maxim tells us to rear and take care of the helpless child properly as soon as it is born.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">All of us know it well that an enormous potentialities remain hidden in a newborn baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Certainly, it can be said that a child is born with a lot of potentialities that comes into reality with proper attention and nourishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">So, if we fail to fulfil our primary responsibilities towards the child, its talents will not develop properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">As a result, the future of the nation will be at risk.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Hence, in order to build a better society and a responsible generation, we all need to take appropriate care of the new born child.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Such a proper development of a child is possible only through suitable care.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">It is known to all that a child does not become self-dependent or is not be able to meet its physical needs just after its birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">In comparison to other animals, human child is more helpless and more dependable on others.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">This situation continues for a long period.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">It is due to such dependence, the mother of the baby should be aware of the principal requirements of the child and ensure proper care of the baby during the early stages.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The major responsibility of a mother is to ascertain the needs of the child and find out ways and means to meet the needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It is only then consciousness will be created among each of the member of the family about the process of growth of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The needs of a child are : food, getting rid of breast milk habits as well as gradually getting dependent on weaning foods, clothes, bathing, sleeping, exercise and sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Finding ways to meet all these demands is known as child care, and by dint of it the absolute physical and mental growth of a child becomes possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">In this chapter, the care of children from birth up to five years has been discussed.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Feeding is one of the most important preconditions of child care.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">To get a beautiful and healthy baby, proper food is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">A child takes only liquid food up to the age of two or three months.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Afterwards, it gradually begins to take semi-solid and solid foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">After birth, mother's milk is the best food for the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">This is particularly so due to the fact that mother's milk is liquid, easily digestible,nutritious and suitable for the growth of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The necessary elements for the physical development of a child like protein, carbohydrate, fats, vitamins, mineral salts and water are present proportionally in mother's milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">So, in various research and studies it has been found that breast feeding directly and indirectly benefit both the child and the mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">For its existence, a baby gets its nourishment from mother's milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">There is no substitute for mother's milk because the other kinds of milk that we get from cows or goats or tinned powdered milk cannot ensure resistance and fitness concurrently to the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It is only mother's milk that can be termed as a full and complete food.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Mother's milk is produced naturally for the baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">It contains the requisite amount of various growth elements that are necessary for the development of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Iron is present in breast milk as a mineral and it can be easily absorbed to from blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">As a result, it protects the child form the adverse effects arising out of iron deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Vitamin C present in mother's milk in a proportionate way, is necessary for the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">A child reared through mother's milk does not need extra vitamins and irons.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Mother's milk is easily digestible and so there is no scope of constipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">This is because the fatty materials are present in mother's milk in liquid form and the lactoalbumin (protein of mother's milk) is also present in it in a maximum quantity and is easily digested whereas clasein (protein of cow's milk) is not.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The child's habit of sucking milk helps to develop the lower part of its face properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Mother's milk is pure as it is produced inside the mother's body.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">For this reason, there is no possibility of germs and bacteria entering into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">This cannot be said with confidence in case of other sources of milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">There is no possibility of mother's milk getting decomposed.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">It remains fresh as ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Mother's milk helps to develop the power of resistance to various diseases and protects the child from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The milk that is first produced in mother's breast just after child birth is known as colostrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Colostrum appears to be sticky and is yellow in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">This contains more protein in it than it does at later stages.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Colostrum produces disease resistant power within the child's body.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The protein of milk that we get from cows generally cause allergies which may lead to eczema and other types of skin diseases as well as asthma.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">However, the children receiving mother's milk up to the age of five to six months are less likely to get such diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Mother's milk does not cost anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Keeping her mental and physical health intact through regular and requisite food, a mother can provide sufficient milk to her child.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">This does not need any extra expenditure.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Mother's milk saves both time and energy and does not require any of these in excess.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">But this is not the case of other sources of milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Quite a significant number of mothers believe that they will be confined to their homes if they do breast feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Although such an idea is partially true, and examples against it can be cited.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">One of such an example is that during the time of traveling, this habit of breast feeding makes the journey easy and comfortable to a great extent and is safe for both the mother and the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Besides, the mother can easily breast feed the child at night, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Breast feeding helps both the mother and the child in attaining emotional fulfillment.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">It also helps in the development of interrelationship between the mother and the child in a better way.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">A heavenly comfort prevails between the giver and the receiver of breast milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The child finds happiness, comfort and assurance within the mother's lap.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Breast feeding helps to develop a sense of security in the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It has been found that children reared through breast feeding have less tendency of thumb-sucking.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">This type of thumb-sucking is a symbol of insecurity among the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">There is a common belief that a mother will not conceive again so long as she continues breast-feeding to her child.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">In other words, it can be said that breast feeding acts as a contraceptive too.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Some mothers believe that breast feeding may harm their physical beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">But such an idea is wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Moreover, it has been found that the possibility of deadly cancer becomes less if breast feeding is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The uterus and the abdomen of the mother return to their normal shape because of breast feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">After birth, the baby should be cleansed and taken to the mother's lap and allowed to suck her breasts as soon as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">This will hasten the supply of milk into mother's breasts, increase its emission through them and as such, the flow of milk will become continuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">From then on, the following rules are needed to be followed during breast feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The mother should drink a glass of water before breast feeding her child and be mentally ready.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Both of the breasts are needed to be cleansed each time before breast feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The psychology of the mother is an important factor during breast feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Hence, she should start breast feeding the child with a favourable intentional set up as well as with a quiet mentality.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">She should breast feed her child in a calm and peaceful environment as well as in a position full of love and affection for the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">When the child completes its taking milk up to its satisfaction, it will stop sucking the breasts by itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">At this stage, the child should not be disturbed but should be allowed to lie quietly on the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Both the breasts should be used alternatively during each breast feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The mother should never breast feed the child in a lying position.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The mothers breast may block the child's nostrils and the milk enter inside them as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">It is not wise to breast feed the child each time it cries.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The child may cry for a number of reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Hence, the reason why the child cries needs to be ascertained first before breast-feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Often milk from other sources (bottle feeding) is needed to be given to a child instead of mother's milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Circumstances which might lead to such alternative feedings can be as follows : when the mother is seriously ill, (ii) when the secretion of milk from the mother's breasts becomes insufficient, (iii) when working mothers need to go out of the house frequently.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Such milk from various sources may be of different kinds; for example tinned powder milk, cow's milk or buffalo's milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Such kinds of milk can be fed to the child through bottle feeders or spoons and cups.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">During the early stages, many mothers prefer bottle feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">But according to modern science, it is better to habituate the child in spoon and cup feeding rather than in bottle feeding for a long period.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In whichever way the child is fed, one has to keep various items for preparing milk in a neat and clean way.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">These items should be sterilized every time before feeding milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">First, all the items should be washed carefully with the help of brush and detergent.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The inner and the outer side of the nipple has to be cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Sometimes the hole of the nipple becomes blocked.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">In such a case, it should be cleaned with the help of a tooth peak or a matchstick.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Then all the items are needed to be rinsed well with clean water.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">After this, all the items are to be immersed in water in a saucepan and boiled for 10 to 15 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Then each of the items is to be brought out of the boiling pan with the help of forceps and should be kept in a pot (the pot to be cleansed previously in hot and boiled water).</sent>
				<sent id ="103">These items, thus cleansed and sterilized, have to be covered with a plastic cover within the pot so that flies or mosquitoes cannot sit on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Sometimes, nipples may not be of good quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">In such a case, it is wise to sterilize the nipple by boiling it separately for five minutes rather than for ten to fifteen minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">However, while traveling, sterilizing of the items in the above method may not be possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In such a case, sodium hypochlorite solution may be utilized.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Sodium hypochlorite is available in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">This solution can be used in sterilizing the above items.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Both the hands have to be washed with a soap each time before preparing milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The inner side of the bottle, both sides of the strainer or that of the measuring cup should never be touched.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">In case of cow's milk, it has to be boiled to make it ready for drinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Then it has to be poured in the bottle through the filter.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">In case of powdered milk, firstly, hot boiled water is to be mixed with it to form a paste.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Particular care is needed to be taken so that the powdered milk does not form lumps while mixing it with hot water.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">After the paste is made, the rest of the boiled water should be poured while stirring constantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Generally one measure level (through the spoon provided in the tinned container) of powdered milk is mixed with one ounce (30cc) of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">For 4 ounces or 120 cc of milk, 4 level measure of powdered milk has to be mixed with 4 ounces of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The quantity of milk, when necessary, can be increased or decreased according to this proportion.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">When milk is prepared and is needed to be poured inside the bottle, the bottle is to be closed with the cap along with the nipple.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In doing so, care must be taken not to hold the nipple but the side of the cap.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">This will keep the nipple safe from contamination.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">When, the bottle is closed it is better that the nipple-end is tilted and is washed by pouring hot boiled water on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Afterwards the amount of milk flowing through the nipple is to be ascertained according to age and health of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">When the hole of the nipple is small, the child will have to use more force in sucking the nipple.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">This will make the weak child tired of sucking.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Again, if the hole is wide, flow of milk through it will be more than is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The child, in such cases, will find trouble in swallowing the milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Hence, the mother needs to be very particular about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">During bottle feeding, the child should be taken in the lap with care as it is done while breast feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The head and shoulders of the child have to be raised slightly by placing an arm beneath them.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">This will prevent milk from rolling down the back of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">It is wise to decide whether temperature of milk suits the child before the bottle feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The bottle is needed to be held at the child's mouth in a sloping position in such a way that the milk fills in the nipple-end of the bottle.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Otherwise, the child will suck air along with milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Burping the baby- During the breast feeding or feeding in other ways through bottle or cup and spoon, each time some air enters into the baby's stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Air can also enter if the baby cries during feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">This air takes a space inside the stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Therefore, the baby can feel uneasiness during feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">If any measure is not taken this time, pain in the stomach will be caused and the baby will start crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Many a times, if this situation continues, the baby will vomit.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Then the baby will feel hungry much earlier than the next feeding time and may start crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Hence, the air which it swallows along with milk is needed to be released through its mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">This process of taking out this air through the child's mouth is called burping.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">In order to release the air in such a way, the child has to be held in an upright position on one of the shoulders of the mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Then gentle pressure is applied on its back and the child burps out the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The child feels comfort instantly after burping.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">During feeding if the baby gets slow in taking food or expresses disinterest, it is to be naturally understood that air is needed to be expelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">This process should be continued till the baby is three months old.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">After attaining the age of 3 to 4 months, the baby tries burping itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">During the age of 5 to 6 months of age, the baby learns how to burp.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">A healthy child needs adequate quantity of milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">During the early months after birth, the nutrition of child is mainly met from milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The quantity of milk consumed by a child during each time of feeding on a day can easily be measured if it is fed using bottle.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">In case of breast feeding, however, it is somehow hard to find out whether the child gets the required quantity of milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The child's getting of the required quantity of milk can be ascertained mainly in two ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Of these, one way is to observe the weekly gain in the child's body weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The other way is through observing the behaviour of the child during feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">A hungry child expresses its uneasiness when it does not get the sufficient amount of milk it needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Besides, the child will start crying between the feeding times, that is, much earlier than the next feeding time.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">If such is the case, one has to understand that the child is not getting sufficient quantity of milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Under these circumstances, if the breast milk is not sufficient, the rest of feeding will be made through bottle.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Generally, up to two months of age after birth, the rate of child's weekly body weight gain should be 113-170 gms (4-6 ounces).</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Thereafter, from 2 months to 6 months of age, the weekly gain in body weight should be 170-227 gms (6-8 ounces).</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Thus, one can easily understand whether the child is getting its required quantity of milk through observing weekly gain in its body weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The following chart shows a child's need for milk at the stage up to six months of age.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">After, the age of six months, the need for milk decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The reason behind this decrease is that the child begins to take other foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The frequency of feeding and time table for feeding the child will also be discussed at a later stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The daily frequency and intervals of feeding child depend completely on the age and health of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">During the primary stages, the child does not have any definite time when it feels hungry for food.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In fact, as the child grows up, it needs to be fed according to certain time table.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Physicians, for this reason, generally advise to maintain a flexible feeding timetable during the early weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The time-table which is followed for one child may not suit another.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">However, it is wise to develop feeding habits according to a definite time table among the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">As a result, a child will cry or express its need for food at particular times.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">With varied conditions of age, health, climate and individuality of a child, there are variations in feeding time-tables as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">It can generally be said that a new born baby of our country during its first two weeks is needed to be fed altogether seven times a day with intervals of two hours and then till two months of age starting from the third week, the interval should be of three hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">From the second month up to the age of six months, the child is to be fed six times a day and after six months of age, five times a day through breast or bottle feedings with intervals of three hours and four hours respectively between feedings.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Both the mother and the child need rest at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Some inconveniences may be experienced during the first two or three months.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It is better to develop a habit gradually in the child so that feeding is not done to it after 10.00pm and before 6.00 am.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">In case that child wakes up during this period, it can be made to drink cooled boiled water.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Milk is the ideal food for a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">When the child grows up, the need for food enriched with various food values becomes essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">At this stage, neither the mother's milk nor the bottle alone can meet the need of extra elements necessary for the growth of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Hence some other food should often supplement milk that provide nutrition needed for its growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">It is due to this reason that the child needs to get rid of the habit of taking milk only as its food.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">In a simpler sense, sometimes quitting milk means habituating the child in drinking milk from a cup in place of sucking mother's breast or bottles.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">In a greater sense, it means the child getting the habit of eating through chewing and biting rather than sucking foods from some other source.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">According to the modern concept, a child should get rid of sucking habits during four to five months of its age.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The child's normal growth will be hampered if the process of removing its sucking habit is delayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Many of the mothers do not pay much importance on this aspect.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">They make their children dependent on mother's milk or bottle milk for a long period.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Many children, too, like to suck bottles idly and leisurely.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">A number of children are found to suck bottles up to their school going age.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">This habit spoils the child's sense of taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">As a result, the demand for other types of food does not grow in the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">This hampers its total growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Hence, the child should be familiar with semi-solid or solid foods suitable for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">This may be done by giving the child semi-solid and solid foods steadily along with breast-feeding or bottle feeding during three or four months of its age.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">This changed habit is needed to be developed in the child because the essentials necessary for its nutrition are largely present in various foods other than milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">For example, mother's milk is a complete food for the child up to age of six months meeting the requirements of iron and vitamins.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">But as the child grows up, the need of these elements also increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Neither mother's milk nor any other milk can meet this extra need.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">It is needed to be borne in mind that foods enriched in various nutritional elements is essential for all round growth of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">For this reason, the child needs to be gradually habituated with other types of food along with milk form four months of its age.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The child should be allowed to develop its changed habit steadily.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Nutritionally enriched food items other than milk which are gradually fed to the child as it grows in age are called the weaning foods for the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Due to this weaning food, the proportion of milk in the child's daily food habits slowly decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">A mother needs to take some aspects into consideration while making the child familiar with such new foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Only one new food should be given to the child each time and should be continued for several weeks that follow.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">There are two reasons behind following this practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Firstly, the child quickly gets the habit of new food provided to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Secondly, the mother can recognise how far the new food becomes satisfactory to the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">At first a little amount of the food is to be served to the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">If the child accepts the new food, the quantity may gradually be increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Besides, the new food is needed to be made attractive to the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Force, in any form, should not be applied on the child in taking any food.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">If the new food is found to cause the child to vomit, cause allergic reactions on the child's skin or develop symptoms of diarrhoea, it should be excluded from the diet chart of the child for at least some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">It will be easy to get the child rid of milk and make it familiar in weaning foods if we follow this practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">It has been observed that a child like adults, at the age of three to four years can take all that foods of the diet chart according to the feeding time table.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">It has been observed that a 3 or 4 years old baby can take all food of the list like adults according to the time table.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">As per the daily time table of one year old child, the child can be provided food three times daily after its nine month.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">It can be given any foods like juice of some fruits, soup, biscuit, bananas, mangos etc. in between breakfast and lunch and in between lunch and supper.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">A cup of milk should given to the baby before it goes to sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">At this stage, it is essential to note that the child is needed to be served with milk along with the foods listed in the diet chart each time.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The milk may be mother's milk or milk from other sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">During meals, the child has to be served with solid foods (weaning food) first and then with milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Any quantity of milk it drinks during this time will be enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">On the other hand, if the milk is served first, the child will express its unwillingness to take solid foods and its attraction for milk will remain.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Above all, one has to be particular that protein, carbohydrates, fat and other food elements are presents in the child's daily diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The child, in this way, needs to be made to develop good eating habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Later as the child grows up in age, only the amount of food in the sample diet chart may be increased and continued as such till the child attains the age of five years.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">But care must be taken so that the child gradually develops the habit of taking liquid first and the semi-liquid foods and afterwards all types of solid foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Child's clothes occupy a large portion of child's nurture and care.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The primary aim of wearing clothes is to maintain a balanced warmth in the child's small body.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">A helpless child comes to the world completely bare bodied.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">When the child is born after staying nine months inside its mother's womb, it is exposed to a temperature different from what it had been used to.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The bare bodied new born child begins to shiver in cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">During the initial stage of its birth, the child is cleansed and then, depending on the season, it is wrapped in a blanket, quilt or towel.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">These are the clothing of the child during this particular period.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Hence, it can be said that keeping the pace between increase in age and changing need of the child, the types of clothing also change.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">One of the necessary clothing for a baby is the nappies Nappies, diaper and other apparel suited to the child or the diapers.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The nappies are made at home with soft and absorbent fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Most of the nappies can be washed but do not need ironing.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Besides, there are some nappies made of special kinds of paper (these are available in the market) which are thrown away after single use.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Nappies made of soft and absorbent fabrics are folded, led between the thighs of the child and their ends are tied into a light knot.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Besides, it is better to clothe the child with a vest or an apparel of the design of a kimano made of thin soft fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The open end of such apparel should be at the shoulders up to such an age till which the child sleeps lying on its back or its chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The open ends should have laces instead of buttons or hooks for fixing.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Such an arrangement will protect the child from getting pinches at its back or on its chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">The child is needed to be clothed in this manner up to the age of five or six months.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Form the age of two years onwards, when the child just learns to walk, it does not need nappies or diapers during the day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Simple skirt and pants are enough for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">This will help the child acquire the habit of toilet training.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Care should be taken in clothing the child with nappies or diapers, so that rashes do not appear on the child's skin due to prolonged wearing of nappies wet with urine.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">While changing the diapers, each time the back and lower part of the child's body which are covered with diapers, need to be wiped with wet and clean piece of fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Thereafter these parts of the child's body are wiped dry with the help of another piece of clean and dry fabrics, later powder or lotion is applied on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The child's clothing must always be of light colour, should be looses fitted and soft, although a child may look beautiful in tight fitting clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">As such, synthetic fabrics, such as, nylon, dacron, etc. being resistant to passage of air through them, need not be used in making clothes for the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Synthetic fibres cause harmful effects on the soft and delicate skin of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">It is only the cotton fabrics which is good for infant clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">For the clothing of a very young child, it is better to put laces instead of pins or buttons.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The open end of the clothes should better be at the chest side.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Sleeping apparel of the child should be light and loosely fitted.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">But apparels to be used during play time should be of bright colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">This will make the child cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The clothes of the child should be different in different seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">For example, the child's apparel during summer season in a topical country like ours should be light, thin and loosely fitted.The normal body temperature of the child should be between 98.4 and 99 during both winter and summer seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The child is needed to be clothed following this rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Clothing of the child should be made of flannel or warm fabrics for winter season and depending on the coldness of the weather, it should be made to wear pyjamas or similar type of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The child should not be made to wear warm clothing directly on its bare body.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">It needs to wear a vest or a tape made of soft fabrics underneath warm clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">When the child goes out of the house, it should be clad in apparels of simple designs made of bright fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Instead of making one or two pieces of expensive designs made of bright fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Instead of making one or two pieces of expensive dresses, more number of simple ones should be made for the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The reason behind it is that the child is needed to be kept neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The child's dresses become mostly dirty during feeding , in heat, sweat and during running to and fro and playing.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">This requires frequent changing of child's cloth and hence, it is essential to have them more in numbers.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">It can, hence, be concluded that the apparel of the child needs to be easily available, should be according to taste, beautiful and hygienic, and may easily be washed and changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Lastly, emphasis to a great extent should be given on the cleanliness of the child's apparel.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Everyday, the nappies used by the newborn baby, diapers made at home from cotton fabrics, frocks, quilts, towels etc. should be washed with soap and warm water.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Care should be taken so that the alkali of the soap does not remain in the fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">After washing with water the fabrics need to be sterilized by immersing them into water mixed with one or two drops of dettol or savlon.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">In case these detergents are not available, the apparel daily used by the child may frequently be boiled with water and washing soda.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">After washing, these may be squeezed to remove water from them and dried well in the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">After drying, these may be folded and kept in a definite place which can easily be reached by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The every day apparel of the child is needed to be washed in detergents or lotions, dried regularly in the sun, folded and kept well arranged.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Besides feeding, bathing is another important aspect of child care.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The initial responsibility of the physician and the delivery nurse is to clean the body of the child and take special care of its eyes after it is born.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Thereafter, its navel cord is cut and tied and sterilized bandage is applied on the wound of the navel.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">The child is bathed in such a way that the bandage on its navel wound does not get wet.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">In order to hold the navel cord firmly in place, the abdomen of the child is wrapped and tied with a piece of soft and thin fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">This is known as the primary bath and care of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Hereafter, the mother herself needs to bathe the child till the child becomes able to bathe and take care of its body by itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Like the elders, the child, too, needs regular bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Its body becomes dirty due to heat and sweat.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Besides, the child starts playing around as it grows.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">This, too, makes its body dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">If this dirt is not removed regularly, it begins to block the pores of the child's skin and causes various skin diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Regular bath keeps the child's body clean and removes the dirt from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">The child's nerves are made vitalized after bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">This makes the child happy and cheerful and it feels comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">In one ward, it can be said that regular bath keeps the physical as well as the mental health of the child in good conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">The child should not be bathed all on a sudden.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">This may, very frequently, cause fear within the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Prior preparation is necessary for bathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Before bathing, the entire body of the child needs to be rubbed with pure mustard oil or olive oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">This makes the child gradually prepared for bathing physically as well as mentally.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">All the equipment needed during and after the process of bathing should be arranged and kept together in a place every time before one starts to bathe the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">This is known as preparation prior to bathing .</sent>
				<sent id ="313">It is better only to sponge the body of the child with luke warm water till its navel cord dries up and drops from its navel.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">The reason is that there is a possibility of the navel bandage getting wet if the child is bathed in bowl water during this period.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Depending on mother's convenience, it is better to bathe the child during the morning hours of the day.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Care should be taken so that the place where the child is bathed is not cool.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">It is better to bathe the child inside the room or on a verandah instead of bathing it in the bathroom till three or four months of its age.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">During winter, bathing the child in the sun on verandah makes it feel comfortable and happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Luke-warm water is taken in two bowls for the child's bathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">In winter, water can be made warm by keeping it for some time in the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Temperature of water is to be ascertained before bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">It is wise to spread a towel or quilt at the bottom of the bowl under the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Otherwise, if the child is laid into bowl, during bathing, there is a possibility of it being slipped off hands of the mother and getting hurt from the sides of the bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Such an accident may cause water to enter the child's nostrils and mouth and may cause various harmful consequences.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">A mug with water of normal temperature is taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">For an infant, a little amount of water is taken in the bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Thereafter, as the age of the child in- creases, the amount of water to be taken in the bowl also increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Besides, during bathing of a child, if the ear holes are covered with cotton, fear of water entering the ears is removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">At the time of taking the child into the bowl, its head is to be held up by placing a hand below its head behind the shoulders.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">The mother needs to be alert at this stage so that the child's head and shoulders do not slip off her hands due to the movements of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">At the age of six to seven months, the child can be made to sit in the bowl with a little help.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The child very often, likes to enjoy playing by sitting in water in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">But it should never be allowed to sit in the bowl alone with nobody around.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">The child's face should be washed with water without applying soap on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">However, for a somewhat older child, sometimes soap may be applied on its face with care.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">As the child's head has hair on it, it should, therefore, be washed everyday and quite often, the hair can be shampooed or soap can be used to cleanse the hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Bathing phobia is found to be common among a number of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">The child begins to cry when it finds its mother making preparation for bathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Bath phobia has various reasons, such as - If water gets into the child's nostrils, mouth, ears or eyes during bathing and causes discomfort to it, the child naturally gets scared.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">The child gets afraid if the bath water is too hot or too cool during winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">If, at any time, the child gets slipped inside the bowl during bathing, it begins to become afraid of bathing from thereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">In cases, such a situation arises and the child develops bath phobia.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Hence the mother should consider changing the bathing procedure for sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">It has been observed that one-year-old children forget such unpleasant happenings normally and within a short period if under such circumstances, bathing in the bowl is stopped for some days.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Before starting to bathe the child, the mother needs to soak a piece of cotton in water, and squeeze water out of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Then, she has to wipe the eyes of the child with the wet cotton carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Thereafter, the penis of the male child or the vagina in case of the girl child, as well as the anus, have to be cleaned with a cotton brush.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Then the nostrils, and the ear-holes are gently cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">After these preliminary tasks are over, the dress is removed from the child's body.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">A soft towel is being wet with water and soap is applied on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">The body of the child is then gently rubbed with the wet and soapy towel to remove the oil applied on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Then, gradually, the child's head, backside of the ears, shoulder folds, armpits, hands, legs and lastly, the back and thigh-joints of the child are rubbed with the wet and soapy towel.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Attention must be paid towards cleaning the dirt from the neck-folds and knee-folds of the child at the very beginning of the process.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Otherwise, prolonged accumulation of dirt may cause sores in these parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">After performing these works, the child's head is to be washed with the normal cold water kept in the mug.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">The child is then lowered into water of the first bowel.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">After removing the soap and dirt form the body, it is immediately taken into the clean water of the second bowel where the body of the child is again washed clean of soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Thereafter, its body is quickly wrapped in the fabric meant for wiping and is laid on a soft towel spread over the bed and then it is wiped dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">This entire work is to be done quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Otherwise, the fear will be there for the child catching cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">After this, talcum powder is applied throughout the child's body and the child is dressed in clean clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The process of bathing thus ends and the child feels comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Thus when the child grows up, it is found to learn participating itself in the bathing process.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">For example, it participates with the mother in arranging its own clothing and bathing equipment as preparation for bathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">It likes to rub its own body by itself while taking bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">It pours water on its own body with a mug.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">It likes to play with water while sitting in the bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">As a child continues to take part in such types of activities, the bath phobia gets over and at five to six years of age, it acquires most of the rules of bathing by itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Yet at this stage, too, the child should not be allowed to take bath alone by itself, because it is not yet able to clean itself properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">It cannot dry its body and hair quickly and as such, fear will be there of it catching cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">The mother should hence, be careful about this.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">The child, however is able to bathe by itself and becomes self dependent at eight to nine years of age.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Rest makes the body free of fatigue, vitalizes the body and helps in physical growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Sleep and rest are very much close to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Complete rest of the body and mind is provided by sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Sleep is one of the most essential physical needs of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">In fine, we can say that sleep is a special aspect of child care.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Sleep acts as an appropriate tonic in keeping the child's body fit and healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">The child keeps itself engaged in playing, running and jumping or any other activities so long as it remains awake.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">To make up the wear and tear of the body due to such activities of the child, sufficient rest and sleep are necessary along with food.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">The time to be spent by the child in sleeping is closely related to its rate of growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">A new born baby spends 80 percent of its time sleeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">It can be said that it sleeps for almost eighteen to twenty hours a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Growth of the child is rapid during the early several weeks after its birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">This growth of the child decreases when it attains the age of six months after birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">During this time, its need for sleep decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">A one-year-old child sleeps for one to two hours during day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">This quantity of sleep remains almost the same at the age of two also.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Children of age-group from six months up to one year generally, sleep for one hour after breakfast and for one or two hours after lunch.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Most of the children remain so much busy while they are awake that they easily get tired and fall asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Children do not like to sleep when they complete two years of age and begin to cry when laid on bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">In this way, if the child does not sleep in the morning for several days, it sleeps for a much longer period at noon.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">The place of sleep for baby should be noiseless, healthy , neat and clean, safe and sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">If there is a noisy environment, the sleep of the baby is hampered which is not good for his health.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Besides, the bed of the baby is needed to be soft and comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">According to opinions of child specialists, the pillow is not required for baby rather it is harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Because, the bones of neck and head are soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">So, the shape of neck and head can be deformed by using pillows.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Many conscious mothers put a piece of soft cloth after folding it under the head of the baby and change every now and then as per requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">The position of the child in sleep is an aspect of considerable importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">The soft bones of the child are subjected to pressure if the child is allowed to sleep lying for a long time on its back, or left or right side or on its chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">This may cause deformity in its bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">As such, the position of the child while asleep is needed to be changed frequently.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">However, at the age of four to six months, the child adjusts its sleeping position by rolling itself and sleeps in comfort.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">By observing the child's movement in adjusting its sleeping position, it is found that a number of children mostly prefer sleeping while lying on their chest and feel comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Such a position of sleeping of the child lying on its chest has got some advantages.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Children can lie spreading their entire body length almost parallel to the bed Such a habit helps straighten their legs and makes their lungs work properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Soft and small skull bones of the child are not subjected to pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">This prevents deformation of the backside of its head.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Very often, while burping, some food particles may come out.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">It may happen even when the child is in sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Sleeping in this inverted position removes the fear of blockage in its breathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">If the child sleeps lying on its chest, it can easily raise its head and chest with the support of its palms and arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">This makes its back-muscles firm and strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Children sleeping in inverted position cannot kick off the fabric covering their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Due to these advantages, the mothers should help their child sleep in inverted position when the child attains two to three months of its age.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Practising the lesson of regular and daily movement of various parts of the body for bringing rhythm and balance among them as well as among various muscles is called physical exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">The various nerves of body become strong and get nourished as well as the working ability of the body increases through exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Enough exercise is necessary for the proper physical development of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The children make movements almost all the time within a few days after their birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">In this way, normally, a number of muscles of the body get exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Children turn their heads, move their arms, legs and fingers, throw out their fists and kick by themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">But these actions cannot cause enough exercise for all parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">There cannot be adequate exercise for shoulder muscles till the child is able to sit or stand by itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Similarly, it can be said that heels and toes do not get exercise before the child can stand on its own feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Hence, it is necessary to follow a daily time table of exercise for the child in order to take proper physical care of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">It is better to make the child perform exercise after three to four weeks of its birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">During this period, it gets rid of post-birth fatigue and is able to adjust itself with the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">In the primary stages, the time table of the child's exercise should be ten to fifteen minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Thereafter, it can be gradually increased up to one hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">The child should be made completely bare-bodied, even nappies or diapers, too, should not be there during the time it performs exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">The child may be made to perform exercise in an open and clean place with the help of elder persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">As the child attains three to four months of age, it likes to exercise at its own will through rolling its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">At this stage, it is allowed to do so within a playing cage or in a safe playing space surrounded by the fences at all sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">When the child lies flat on the back on the bed, mother should allow her child to hold her fingers tight, pull the child up slowly, and make it lie down again in its previous position.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Thus, the mother has to do this five times and then she has to increase it upto ten times a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">By doing this, the back muscles and the biceps of the child become strong and its efficiency of catching something is developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">If the child is laid on its chest, its abdomen comes under pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">The child, in this position, raises its head and shoulders with the help of its palms and arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">This process, too, is an excellent exercise for the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Initially, it may be allowed to perform this act for a little period, for example, for five minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Thereafter, the time can be gradually increased to an extent till the child gets exhausted.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">This exercise makes the muscles of the child's chest and back well arranged, increases the strength of its arms and quickly makes the shoulders firm.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Even when the child grows in age, provisions should be maintained for the child's indoor exercise till it engages itself in playing outdoor.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">With advancement of age, children engage themselves in various outdoor sports, such as, running, going up the steps of the ladder, climbing, riding a cycle, playing with balls, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">At this stage, no time is needed to be kept for regular indoor exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Besides, the child goes to nursery, kindergartens or formal schools according to its age.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">In such places there are arrangements for P.T., drill and other types of sports.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Hence, at this stage, the need for indoor exercise does not arise.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">The provision of enough sunlight for the child is one of the most important parts of child care.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">To bask the baby in the sun everyday or to leave the baby under the sun for some time every day is called sunbath.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">The sunlight acts as an energy of life for the human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">With the sunlight the general health of human being develops.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">Sunlight helps to increase the natural force of resistance against various diseases of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Hence sunbath, hence, is of much importance in protecting the health of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">The child may be kept in the sun initially for two minutes a day after birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">The period may be extended upto half an hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">However, it depends upon the intensity of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">The body of the child is rubbed over with oil and then is kept in the sun in the early morning during summer and before bathing during winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">This is done because in summer, the intensity of sunlight may cause sun burning.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Besides, the child feels comfortable when it is kept in the sun during the cold winter morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Regular sunbathing keeps the child out of the danger of catching cold and enhances its resistance against various contagious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Sunlight helps in the formation of vitamin D under the skin of the child's body which prevents rickets in children.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">But care should be taken while keeping the child in the sun so that no burn is caused due to exposure in sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">There are some aspects to be taken into consideration while sunbathing the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">The child's head and eyes should be kept away from sunlight and if the sun is of much intensity, the child should be removed after keeping it there for sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">For a child, sunbathing may be made by altering very often the position of its body, keeping it lie on either of the sides alternatively, on its back and reversing in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Gradually, when the child grows up and learns to sit, it can be made to play in the sun with its toys.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Thereafter, when the child learns to walk or run, it plays outside the four walls of the house by itself and as result, the child's body gets plenty of sunlight.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
