<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-homeEco-17</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.419</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">457</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">6065</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1607</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t104">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">It is only natural that the clothes will get dirty when these are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">So to keep the clothes clean, these should be washed regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">If clothes are not washed at the right time they will lose their shape, design and brightness.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Expensive clothes may also become useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Usually we wash clothes with soap, soda powder and with natural washing colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">These are natural cleansing materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">It is not enough just to wash clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">To bring back the shape, design and brightness of clothes, these are needed to be washed with indigo, starch and ironed should be well.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">There are two main objectives of washing clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">to wash the dirty clothes with soap or detergent to make them clean again.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">to bring back the clothes to their original form, use special materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Materials used to clean clothes We use different clothes all the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">After wearing for a few days these become dirty and crushed and become unusable.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">We can use a number of cleansing materials to clean our clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">These are given below : Soap, detergent, synthetic detergents, soda, ritha, borax, ammonia, starch, boiling water starch, cold water starch, indigo, vinegar, common salt, methylated spirit, Gum Arabic, French chalk and fuller earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Soap is a surfactant used in conjunction with water for washing and cleaning clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Soap is manufactured by mixing certain fatty acids, such as paemitec acid, coleic acid etc. with caustic potash or caustic soda.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">This chemical mixture forms a kind of potassium or sodium salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">This salt is called soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Many kinds of soap are available in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The soap that contains too much caustic soda is not good for washing and cleaning clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">To clean clothes, soap should have the following characteristics: The soap will not the yellow or deep in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The soap will be hard; so that if we press our finger on it, it will not develop a hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">If we observe a powdery substance on the body of the soap, we should be aware that it contains too much base and is very harmful to our clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">As soap slakis do not contain too much base, these are useful to wash silk and woolen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Soap powder has the power to clean clothes better than ordinary soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">But soap powder of different brands contains too much base.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">As such, we should not use these to wash expensive silk and woolen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Husk or bran water is also used or a cleansing material.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Colourful and printed clothes such as chintz and cretonne are washed with bran water.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Bran is also known as husk.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Seribing bran in a piece of cloth produces Bran water.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">When that water turns in brown colour we get bran water.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Husk is also used for dry cleaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The detergent named Borax is not available in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Borax is found in Tibet, Peru, Chile etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">At present borax is produced from sodium carbohydrate boric acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Liquid borax contains base so it is effectively used to strengthen and brightens clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Ammonia is also called liquor ammonia.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">A pungent gas mixed in water is available in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Hard water that is used for cleaning white silk and woolen clothes is made softer by using ammonia.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Coloured clothes are not washed in this type of soft water as it may cause the clothes to get discoloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">This may be used to clean stains on clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Starch is obtained in great quantity from rice, potatoes and corn.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">By using starch, clothes get back their natural strength, and brightness.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Clothes do not get dirty easily when starch is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Clothes become yellowish after washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">In order to get rid of their yellowish presence indigo is used to get a light blue white appearance.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Ultramarine, prussian and indigo blue are available in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">These are used for washing clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Indigo is found in both hard and powder form in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">To use this for washing clothes, it must be taken in a small piece of cloth and mixed in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Vinegar is used in the cleansing material to get rid of the excessive blueness of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Vinegar is also used to bring back the colour in discoloured clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Common salt may be used while washing coloured clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">This will not affect the colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">It is also used to clean stains on clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Gum Arabic is used to strengthen and brighten silk clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">This is a kind of powdery, detergent.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">This powdery material is used to take off the oily dirt from clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Detergent is a non-base material used for cleaning clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Silk, woollen clothes etc. can be easily cleaned with detergent.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Coloured clothes do not lose their colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It is a by-product of petroleum.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Mixing sulfuric acid with paraffin wax produces detergent.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Generally, people call washing soda soda and scientists call it sodium bicarbonate.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">This is produced by chemical reaction by mixing carbon dioxide and amonia gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Soda is used to soften hard water.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">It is also used to take off fruit stains.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Since ancient times the fruit named rita nuto has been used as a cleansing material for silk and woollen clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">This is the fruit of a kind of tree and is used for washing expensive and fine clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Rita nuto contains a material called saponin.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">To bring back the natural size and design of clothes after washing, certain helpful item are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">These are indigo, starch, vinegar, salt, lisapol etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">After washing clothes with detergent, these helpful items are used as per requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Indigo helps to attain brightness in clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">As such it is used after washing white and coloured clothes, especially cotton materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Starch may be of different types, such as arrowroot, gum arabic and flour etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">By using these, the shape and strength of clothes are easily maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Vinegar, salt, lisapol etc. items bring forth the brightness of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">These are also very helpful for maintaining silk and woolen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Before washing clothes there are certain aspects that should be first considered.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Beside the clothes we wear, we use many kinds of clothes in our everyday life.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">These are made of different fibres, are of different colours and different sizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Some clothes attract too much dirt, some are slightly dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">So, before washing the clothes we should select and separate the clothes according to their fiber, colour, size and dirt.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Before washing the clothes we should check if it is torn, detached or if the buttons are missing.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">We should first repair these, especially buttons.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Clips etc. of army or police uniforms should be removed before washing, so that these are not damaged.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Certain clothes may be stained and may look odd to others when worn.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">These stains should be removed at first.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Because if these stains come in contact with soap, detergent and water they may become permanent.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">These stains may not be removable completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Depending on the cloth, design and dirt of the clothes to be washed, we should select tough soap, soft soap, powdery soap, soda etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The temperature of water is also an important factor.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">According to the material of clothes, we must either use hot, lukewarm or normal water.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">To increase the brightness of clothes we can use blue, starch, gum arabic etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Before washing clothes we should keep all washing item near at hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This is very helpful in our job.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">After completing the washing job we should keep all items neatly and in a particular place, so that next time we can easily find these items quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Different clothes are made of different materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">We wear different clothes for different functions, occasions and jobs.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Different washing system are followed for different types of fibres and clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">We will discuss the system or washing of silk, woollen clothes in this chapter.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Before washing, white silk and coloured silk clothes should be separated, because the colour of coloured silk clothes may fade when kept in water for a long time and spoil the white silk clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">So it is better to wash the white ones and coloured ones separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">First of all the dirt should be dusted off.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">We should always use lukewarm water and mild soap while washing silk clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">If we use soap that contains excessive base then the silk clothes will lose its brightness.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">We can use rita nuto, good soap or powdered soap as detergent.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">We must soak the silk clothes in lukewarm water, mix any of the above-mentioned detergents, stir them a few times and then wash them.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">In case of washing coloured silk, during the final stage we should mix a tablespoon of salt and vinegar in one gallon of cold water.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">This process helps the cloth to retain its colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Drying and ironing is the same as in white silk clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Generally, starch is not required for silk clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Water is removed by rinsing, silk clothes should be put in the shade and ironing should be done when the clothes are moist.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">This helps the silk clothes to retain their shape and natural brightness.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">If a hot iron is used, the silk clothes will sustain a yellowish stain and will be damaged.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It is not necessary to soak the silk clothes in water for too long.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">At first lukewarm water and finally cold water should be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">It is not good to use soap that contains too much base.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Silk clothes will get damaged if washed roughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Silk clothes should be rinsed by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Coloured silk clothes should be washed with salt and vinegar.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">If the silk clothes are washed for many times we may use arrowroot starch to maintain its firmness.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Silk clothes must always be dried in the shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Ironing should be done when the silk clothes are still moist.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">It is not good to use a very hot iron on silk clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Woollen clothes are comparatively expensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">These will get damaged if we do not take care properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">These should not be kept in water for too long.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Dusting it properly will clean most of dirt.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">We must be very careful when washing woollen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">We should draw the design of the woollen clothes on a piece of paper, before washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">After washing if we hang it, it will lose its original shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">So it is better to keep it on a flat surface until it is half dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">This helps to retain its original shape and design.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Lukewarm water should always be used for washing woollen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Very hot or very cold water should not be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Soap powder that contains fewer bases should be added to water.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">It is safe to use rita nuto in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The woollen clothes should be carefully rinsed.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The water should be changed a number of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">At the final stage vinegar should be added to the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">This helps the woollen clothes to retain their brightness.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">We should never wring the woollen clothes to take out the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">We can use a thick towel to suck out the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">After this the wet woollen clothes should be placed on the piece of paper where the original drawing of it was made.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Due to washing ,the woollen clothes may shrink, but if we wash in the above manner then it will retain its original form.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">We should place a soft cotton cloth on the woollen clothes and use a hot iron for ironing.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The process of washing white and coloured woollen clothes is the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">It is better to wash them separately in order to avoid colour stains.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Very hot or very cold water should not be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">It is best to use lukewarm water.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Powder soap that contains less base and rita nuto should be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Woollen clothes should not be rinsed roughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Woollen clothes should not be kept in water for too long.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">A thick towel should be used to suck out the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It should not be twisted by hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">A very hot iron should not be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">After ironing it should be kept in the open air.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Dry washing means the washing of clothes without water, but by using special chemical compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Constant use and experience tells us that by washing silk and woollen clothes with soap, soda and water shrink the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Colour may also fade.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">For this reason dry cleaning system is used for washing silk and woollen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Dry cleaning system helps silk and woollen clothes to retain its original shape, form and brightness.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">For dry cleaning a number of liquid chemicals and compounds are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">These chemicals are fully water less.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Even if these contain a small amount of water, this water is sucked off by cotton on other absorbent material.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Because if this type of chemical compound contains water, the clothes cannot be cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Certain chemical compounds have a dirty smell, so these should be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">There are also certain chemicals that easily evaporate into the air, so they are expensive to use for dry cleaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Certain chemicals do not evaporate so easily, so the clothes take long time to dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">So the chemicals that evaporate in a moderate way are best for dry cleaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">It is also seen that one or two compounds may be good for dry cleaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Many types of cleaning liquids are available in the market for dry cleaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Among these, petroleum, ether, turpentine carbon tetrachloride, benzale, benzene and petrol are notable.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Petrol is the best product for dry cleaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Because it is less expensive and readily available.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Petrol is highly inflammable so it should be used very cautiously.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">First of all the dirt should be dust off.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The cleansing liquid should be made water less.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">This water less liquid should be kept in 3 or 4 buckets.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">We can mix benzene soap or lisapol in the first bucket.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The clothes should then be dipped in their solution, wringed lightly and taken off.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">After this, the excess liquid should be taken off from the clothes etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">by using both our hands and then the clothes are dipped in the second, third and fourth buckets.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The fourth bucket should contain some vinegar.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">After washing in this system, the clothes should be dried in the shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">While it is drying, the clothes should be pulled, to bring it back to its original form and shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">This will prevent the clothes from shrinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">When it is nearly dried we can iron it by putting a wet piece of cloth on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">There should be enough movement of air at the place of dry cleaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">There should not be any type of fire at the place or near the place of dry cleaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The chemical liquids should not fall on the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">In this system silk or woollen clothes may be dry washed at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">It may be mentioned here that in the cities, dry cleaning of silk, woollen clothes is done in laundries, using automatic washing machines.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Different types of spices are needed to make a dish palatable and nutritious.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">These spices should be stored in a proper way in every house.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Usually a housewife and those who are engaged in cooking make spices nicely.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">We use various kinds of spices such as seeds (caliper, cumin), flowers, bark, leaves etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">These types of seed crops can stay fresh for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">So, these should be preserved at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">These spices are dry in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">But if they are dried in sunlight it can be kept for a longer period.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Spices can be preserved in glass jars, tin containers, and in plastic containers.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">For drying up the spices, materials like bamboo strainer, dala, winnowing fan (kula), aluminum plate, tray, wooden spoon etc. can be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Each and every spice should be preserved separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">For practical class, students can bring clean containers and jars from home.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">This type of containers can be made of glass, tin or plastic.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Each container should be labelled after the name of the spices.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">During preservation of spices in container the following points should be kept in mind:</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Preservation place or store should be clean and a healthy environment should be ascertained.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Preservation container such as tin, jar, container, basket etc. should be kept clean and moisture free.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">These containers can dry under sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The container's lid or opening should be tied strongly so that moisture and insects cannot go inside and harm the spices.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Good quality and insect free seeds should be preserved.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Regularly, or at least once in a week the container should be observed for proper preservation.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Sometimes during at rainy season seeds can be dried up in sunlight for better preservation.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Seeds or crops when harvested, should immediately be preserved in a proper way.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">All the containers should be rust free.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">After collection of containers, different types of spices should be preserved by following the methods given below:</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Turmeric: After purchasing, turmeric should be cleaned properly and dried in sunlight for some days.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">When dried properly it should be preserved in a container.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Red chilly After purchasing, the stalks should be removed from chilly and then dried in the sun light for 2/3 days and then preserved in a container.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">After purchasing or harvesting, coriander should be cleaned properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">It should be washed and kept on a bamboo tray (winnowing fan or kula) and dried in sun light for several days.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">When dried properly, it can be preserved in a container.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Coriander powder can be preserved in glass jar with strong lid or in plastic container.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Cumin seeds are also preserved like coriander.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">But it should be remembered that cumin seeds should not be washed in water for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">After purchasing these should be cleaned with soft old cloth and kept in a glass jar or plastic pot with a tight lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">After purchasing, poppy seed should be cleaned properly, kept on an aluminum dish and dried in sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">When it becomes cold, it can be preserved in a container.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Mustard should be brushed off by winnowing fan for separating dusts and can be kept in a glass jar or a plastic container.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">All these fruits and flower seeds are flavoured spices.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">After cleaning they can be properly cleaned and preserved in a glass jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Aniseed, fenugreek seed, pepper, parsley, white cumin, all these types of flavored spices can be persevered in the same process.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">These spices when mixed together, is called panchforon and it can also be preserved.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">An infant should get used to complimentary food along with milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The complimentary food should be given gradually to the infant, starting from liquid to semi solid and solid foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The food should be rich in nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">When an infant is offered soft khichuri it should contain cereals, vegetables, meat, oil, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">By this an infant will get ingredients like, carbohydrate, protein, fats, minerals salt, vitamins etc. Pour 1.5 cup of water in a pan on stove.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Stir suji with water in separate cup and when water starts to boil, pour suji in the boiling water stirring constantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">When it becomes thick, pour 1 cup of milk and stir.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">When it boils add 1 table spoon sugar with it and remove from heat in semi solid position.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Keep milk suji in a bowl with spoon and serve it to the infant when it cools down.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Instead of suji, sagu can be used also.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Take orange and lemon juice as required and mix with water and sugar, then serve it to the infant.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Mash or blend ripe banana and papaya; mix with little water and serve it to the infant with spoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Boil a medium sized potato and peel it.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Mash it and mix some salt as required.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Make it suitable to feed the infant.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Then feed it in small amount to the infant.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Mashed ripe bananas can be added with potatoes also.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Egg poach can be done in water to feed infant.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Heat water in a fry pan or iron pan and then take an egg on pan.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">There should be sufficient amount of water in pan so that the egg can be boiled in low heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">After a few minutes a white level will be observed on the top portion of egg like jam and the yolk should soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">3- 4 minutes time is needed for poaching an egg.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Wash rice and boil it with 1/2 litre of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">If necessary use more water to boil rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Take some seasonal vegetables like spinach, cauliflowers, beans, and papayas and wash them and cut them into pieces, boil them with oil and salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Then mix mashed vegetables with rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Water should be given in such way that after cooking the mixture can dry up.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">To give flavour, a little amount of ghee, butter or oil can be mixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Then serve it to the infant.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Lentils can also be used with rice instead of vegetable.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Ingredients- seasonal vegetables like spinach, red spinach, kidney beans, green papayas, carrots, beans, cauliflowers, peas, green bananas, cabbages etc. can be mixed (amount about 250 gm) with small chicken with bones (a little amount) and also spices like ginger paste, soyabeen oil, cumin ground, onion chopped and salt etc. can be mixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Cut all prescribed vegetables into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Then boil all the vegetables including other ingredients except spinach over low heat in a covered pan.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">When it will be half boiled, add spinach.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">When all will be boiled, remove it from heat and then separate the bones from chicken meat and strain it before serving.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The solid elements like vegetable and meat can be smashed and given to infant.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Soft khichuri prepared with small chicken meat, pulses and vegetables Ingredients- Boiled rice, mug dal, lentil that amount will be about 2 tablespoons altogether.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Green papayas, carrots, kidney beans or any seasonal vegetables together of 100 gm.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">One piece of fish (boneless) or meat of small chicken.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Onion, ginger paste, salt and soyabean as required.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Boil the piece of meat or fish with salt and ginger paste.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Wash and cut the vegetables and boil them.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Wash rice, pulses and boil them.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">After boiling for a few minutes add vegetables, chopped onions, ginger paste, soyabeen oil and enough water to make them tender; cook it with cover in low heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">When boiled, mix all with a beater or whisk till it is well mixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Now add meat or fish that was boiled before and mix well.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Stir it and remove from heat while it is soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Cool and serve with spoon to the baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Preparation and serving for balanced food for school going students For students at different ages from primary to secondary level, the requirement or demand for food also varies.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">For this reason the table given below shows the requirements of food of students of different ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Draw a rectangle abdc.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Mark e from 9 cm away of a and ef as a perpendicular.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Then join af by a tangent.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Identify a point 7.5 cm above f in af line.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Mark k from 2 cm right from the point and I from 2 cm left.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Then join akf and alf according to the diagram.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Mark n along the line cd so that cr = 1/2 of circumference of the arm + 2 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Then join as shown in the diagram.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">First stitch two shoulders (5 mm inside the fabric).</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Adjust a button lining on the shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Cut a tangent wise lining for the neck and stitch it from 5 mm inside the neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Then reverse it and fix it along the neckline by calendaring and hem stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Then join two sides of the kameez by stitching from 2 cm inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Keep 18 cm open at the lower end.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Now fold and stitch in lower circumference of the arm and join both sides together.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Then set the arm with the armpit of kameez and join it keeping 5mm off inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Front side of the arm portion should be adjusted with the front side of the kameez.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Hem stitch is appropriate for a thin fold in both the open sides of the kameez.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Stitch the lower end of the kameez by folding it as desired.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Fix buttons or hooks on shoulders.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Then iron the kameez to finish the work.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Both males and females can wear Salwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">But the young women wear it more frequently.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Salwar covers from waist to toes, keeping consistency with Kameez, Salwar is made normally.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">We need twice the total length + 30 cm cloth for a salwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">The width of the cloth may be of one yard or 1 yards.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">If it is 1 yards, the circumference will be better.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">The recent fashion is to make an 18 cm liner or yoke and make a frill beneath the yoke rather than using frill in the waist.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">However the style of cutting is more or less the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Cut the cloth according to the following measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Double the cloth and cut a rectangle abcd from the fold line (look at diagram Then fold the rest of the cloth lengthwise according to No 2 diagram.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Again a rectangle abcd is created.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Now mark b, from 1.2cm left to b. and d2 from 1.2 cm right to d. Connect b1 and d1 tangently and cut it.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Draw perpendicular fk on ab line and rm on cd line so that the length of the perpendiculars 1/4 of the hip size + 189 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">It is the high of the salwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">The shape mnand ek according to the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Now set the cut pieces like picture no. 3. Fold the circumference of the leg as your wish with a hard fabric inside it and stitch on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Thereafter make the mouths of the waistband angular, keep provision of inserting lace within it and stitch accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Then join the highs together.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Start stitching from circumference of one leg to another by reversing the position.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Make lace for the salwar utilizing the cut pieces of the fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Complete the work after ironing the whole salwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">It is better to adjust different parts of the dress with loose and big stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">This will help identifying the defects if there is any or whether the dress fits well to the body before final stitching.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Shoulders of the kameez or frock need to be joined first.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">A Kameez or a frock doesn't fit well if we keep more than 5 mm cloth inside the stitch while joining the arms with the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">While adjusting piping with neck, we should keep less than 5 mm for stitching.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Otherwise, the edge will be swelled and the piping will not adjust properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Fold the fabric at the lower end which is the excess length of the Kameez and give big and loose stitch over it.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Then have a trail to ensure that the length is all right.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">It is not wise to cut the cloth depending on assumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Rather one should cut it according to the directions and using a draft design.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">It is better to draw a design on the cloth with a chalk.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">One should keep extra cloth for stitching and then draw lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">The cloth should be cut from outside the margins.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">While drawing we must be careful that there is no wrinkle on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Length of the dress should fall along the length of the fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The neck of the dress must not be wrinkled while adjusting the piping.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">The sides of the dress should not be joined before stitching the neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">We should keep enough cloth inside the stitching.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">It means keeping provisions in case we need to loose the dress later.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">The sides should not be cut in such a way that the ends make the scope of widening it.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">The prints of designs on the fabric should appear on the same direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">If the prints are displaced, the design would be distorted spoiling the very purpose of the clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">The thread should match the color of the fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">The colour of the stichging thread should be fast, otherwise the cloth will be spoiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">b) In the same way, during weaving the next stick measures, start closing 4 loops once, 2 loops twice each time, then one loop twice each time and lastly weave 2 stick measures and close 2 loops 2 time.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Thus total of 38 loops were closed in both sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">80 loops rested on the stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">c) From here on, continue weaving up to 30 stick measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">After having a shape to armpits at this stage, loops should be closed to give shape of the neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">d) Knit 36 loops straight from the right side.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">e) 8 loops need to be closed in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">f) The rest 36 loops will be knitted straightly again.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">It will divide the blouse on both the sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">On one side, the loops will have to be taken on a large safety pin or on another stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">After knitting a reverse one-stick measure the neck will be shaped from where the wool is tied.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">g) 2 loops will have to be closed in the direction of the neck from the 36 loops.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">After coming round, one loop should be closed again twice each time.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">After weaving 4 stick measures, again close one loop twice in each time.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Thus after closing 6 loops, 30 will remain.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">h) 10 loops will have to be closed weaving directly along the stick near shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">During the next stick weaving further 10 loops will be closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">The shape of the shoulder and neck will be completed after closing 30 loops.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">i) Repeat the process for giving shape to shoulder and neck while weaving the other portion.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">d) Extend one loop after 6 stick measure each and thus increase 8 loops in 4 time.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">e) The extend one loop in every four stick measure.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Thus make 100 pcs on both side 6 time and it will let increasing 12 loops to 20 loops will become (64 + 20) = 84 loops.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">f) Follow the same procedure of shaping the armpit in the front part of the blouse to shape the armpit of the arms /hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">As a result.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">( l) Close 2 loops every two times towards the neck in next straight weaving.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">m) Close every 10 loops in 3 times from the shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">A total of 30 loops will be closed then.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">n) Similarly, shape the neck and shoulder for the other side.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">First join the two portions by the left shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Use carpet needle here.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Take 64 loops from the front neck and 48 from the back on a No 11 stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">(64 + 48) = 112 loops will be prepared then Weave up to 20 stick measures once straight and once reverse like a border.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Then close all the loops by weaving straight and reverse consecutively.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Join the other side of the shoulder and the ends of the border rounding the neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Its total circumference will be 41 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Fold the border to the inner side.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Its width will be 2.5 cm and thickness will be doubled.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Now reverse the front and back portion of the entire blouse and fin together by stitching along both sides through a needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Arms have to be fixed in the same way one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Calendar the blouse with low heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The above measurement and number of loops is appropriate for 4 - ply wools.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">But if lean wool is used to this purpose, it needs to start from more loops.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Again in case of thick wool the number of loops will be reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Buttons can be used on shoulders of woollen blouses if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Instead of joining, the left shoulder border can be knitted.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">After knitting the border in both sides, the border of the front portion is to be placed upon the border of the backside and then the ends are to be fixed together.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">Later, the arms are to be fixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Variations in woollen blouses Woollen blouses can also be made by keeping the front portions open.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Then the front portion should be woven in two phases.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Take 55 loops in every portion.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">It means the loops will be 90 2 = 45 + 10 = 55. 10 loops are needed for piping.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Begin to shape the armpits and then start closing loops for neck after 4 stick measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Close 1 loop towards the neck in the beginning of every stick measure.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Stop closing loops keeping 10 stick measures upward.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Variations can be brought on woollen blouses in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Such as, the armpit could be cut/shaped diagonally rather than in common manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">In such cases, shaping of the armpit begins just after closing seven loops on each side of the stick towards the armpit.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Drop 1 loop in every stick measure.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">However, weaving 4 loops by one straight loop and one reverse and then the 5th loop in a pair, the loops are closed wonderfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Such type of weaving is known as raglan.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Woollen threads of several colours can be used in weaving woollen blouzes.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">This brings about the impact of lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Besides, designs of flowers and leaves can be made on such blouses with a carpet needle and wools of different colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">The doormat is an important supplementary item to keep the room clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">It grabs dust from the sole of the shoes when we come back home from outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">It absorbs water from the foot when we get out with wet legs from the bathroom.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">If we do not use doormats, dust and water will make the bed cover more dirty as we go to bed without cleaning our dirty legs and the feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">The use of doormats has much significance.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">A number of housewives purchase doormats from market.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">A few temporarily use torn clothes as doormats.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">But if one uses her creativity a little bit, one can prepare doormats.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">It saves money and at the same time delights her leisure hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Moreover, attractively made doormats can create provision of carving as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">If we search, we will find usable old clothes in our trunks or suitcases.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">We can make doormats with these clothes easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">So, the procedure of preparing doormats is discussed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Old bed sheets, a bedcover, pillow covers, fabric of old mattresses, fabric of old cushions, 1/2 metre jute fabric, a large needle, white and coloured threads.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Doormats could be of various sizes and shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">The measurement of a doormat to keep along the side the bed should be 30 cm x 46 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">It will be firm if jute fabric is used inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">So, first cut the piece of jute fabric, which is 2.5 cm less in all sides from the original measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Set 3/4 fold old, soft pieces of cloths on both sides of the jute fabric and join the pieces of cloths by running stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Thereafter, cut a piece of fabric from a bed sheet or pillow cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">It should be cut larger than the original measurement for fold lining in every four sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Then place on both sides of the previously improved portion of the jute fabric and give stitch in every four side by folding it.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Use running stitch in the middle of the cloth to restraint from wrinkling inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Then create a border in all the four sides with coloured threads and running stitch to enhance its beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Different stitches can be used in the middle for designing.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">This is the way of making usable doormats with old fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Doormats can be made in other ways too.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">If there is an old curtain, a pad can be made with this.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Then a doormat could be prepared by covering the pad with a bed cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">The procedure is discussed below: Cut off the hooked portion of the door screen and make a double fold along its length.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Then fold it.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">b) Stitch it either by a machine or by hand keeping 1 cm free from all the four sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">c) Cut two pieces of clothes from an old, printed bed cover according to the size of the doormat.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Fix the pieces on both sides of the doormat by stitching.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Make a lining along the four sides of the doormat by an old, coloured designed lining of a sari.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">It will look bright and attractive if coloured cloth is used on the doormat.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">The door mat can be placed near the door of a drawing room.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">This fabric can be fixed to the doormat by making designs on it previously.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">This will cover the knots of the threads appearing on the opposite side of the fabric.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
