<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-homeEco-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.57</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">200</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3248</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">879</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t109">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The efforts of a child to adjust itself with the environment may be termed as its behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">A child behaves differently in its different ages and these are made socially acceptable by guiding the child in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">For example, a child can't control itself from its bodily functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Eventually, if it gets proper guidance, it can perform the bodily needs by hiding itself in a specific area.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">This type of behaviour is called accepted behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">If a child continues to behave abnormally while growing up it is called behavioural problem of a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">continue upto a growing age.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">are socially unaccepted.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">hinder proper managing and adjustment.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">hinder mental and social growth of a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Due to behavioural problems, a child often stammers and if its urethra is not properly shaped, it can't discharge urine properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The behavioural problems arise when a child does not feel confident on itself and feel insecure.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">This insecureness may arise due to family pressure, strict control and lack of entertainment, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">To solve the behavioural problem of a child, parents and guardians should be sympathetic and should try to identify the main causes behind the problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">If the child suffers from some physical problem, they should take doctor's advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Sometimes, this type of problems reduce automatically.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">For example, after taking birth, a child is habituated with bed wetting.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">It is natural upto a certain age.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">But when it continues up to 3-4 years of age, it seems that the child is not able to control itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">After this age, if a child wets its bed, it is a problem and necessary steps are needed to be taken in this respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Example of Behavioural Problems : Bed wetting, thumb sucking, tempers tantrums, excessive crying, stammering, and aggressiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Bed wetting is a normal occurrence for a one year old child.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The habit of evacuating bowels properly comes fully under its control as it attains the age of three to four years.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">But, if the child wets its bed even after the age of four years and continues to do so almost everyday, then it becomes a problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The child makes the family members including its parents anxious.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Very often this puts the family members in an awkward situation in front of outsiders.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The parents, most of the time, fail to understand why the child behaves in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">They become restless and cannot understand the reason of such a behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Thus, they are found to rebuke and even hit the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">In practice, these measures are not only useless but, on the other hand, are rather harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Before taking any remedial measures against any problem, a well- defined reason behind the problem is needed to be ascertained.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Only then, remedial measures will be easy for solving the problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">It has to bear in mind that behind every problem there is a reason.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Here, we shall discuss the probable reasons behind bed wetting.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The child may wet the bed due to its physical illness; Most of the time the child wets the bed due to excessive fatigue;</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The child may wet the bed if it takes too much liquid before going to bed;</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The child may wet the bed if it does not urinate in spite of feeling the pressure at night;</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The child may do so due to cold if it does not have necessary cloth over its body during winter or rainy seasons;</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The child becomes mentally distressed if it is subjected to excessive restrictive actions.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">This may be one of the causes behind the child's bedwetting;</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Altercations between the parents in the family make the child feel insecured which, in turn, may cause the child to wet its bed;</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The child wets bed in order to enhance its mother's attraction towards it.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Most of the time it is found that the mother becomes some what busy due to the birth of younger brother or sister in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">This may make the elder child think that there is a lack of love towards it.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Besides, in case the mother joins a service for the first time, the child wets its bed in order to have the mother with it for a longer period;Besides, if the child is rebuked or punished without reason, it wets the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">If, the reason is known, remedial measures can be taken easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Remedial measures, hence, may be considered keeping in view the probable reasons behind the problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">If physical illness is the real cause, the parents must consult a physician for the treatment of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Necessary steps have to be taken if fatigue is the reason behind the child's bedwetting.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Children are naturally active and restless when they are of three to five years of age.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">As such, they do not take rest during the day but remain busy in playing and running to and fro.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">This makes them tired in the evening and they fall asleep out of fatigue.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Therefore, they do not feel the pressure of urination during the night while asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">As a result they wet the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Under this circumstance, the child needs to be attracted towards rest during the day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">If the child takes rest after lunch, less fear will be there for it to wet the bed at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">If less water and liquid food is given to the child before it goes to sleep, less fear will be there for it to wet the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Habit of regular urination is to be formed by the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Specially before it sleeps at night, the child is to made urinate and then it should be allowed to go to bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The child needs to be kept mentally cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">If due to any reason, it falls into mental distress, the parents should help it come out of such a situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Thereafter, as it grows in age, the child gets rid of the wetting habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Relation between the parents has to be healthy in the family and the environment of the house should be kept quiet.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">This will generate the sense of security in the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The mother must take special care of the elder child if it wets the bed due to the arrival of younger brother or sister in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">One has to be careful so that the child, in no way, can think that there has been a lack of love towards it due to the arrival of its younger brother and sister.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">In all, under such circumstance, the mother has to be patient and spend more time for the child and remain close to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It is not wise to rebuke or ridicule the child for bed-wetting.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The child feels guilty after it wets the bed and hence it seeks shelter and sympathy.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Hence, it is not justified to ridicule it.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The mother's contribution in helping the child to develop self confidence is very great.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In this respect, the mother has to praise the child for its good virtues or habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">If, any day, the child does not wet the bed, the mother needs to be happy and should encourage the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">This will help the child attain mental fulfillment.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The mother should never express her displeasure during changing or washing wet clothing after the child wets the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Rather, she may seek the help of the child in washing the clothing if it is somewhat an elder one.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Most of the time as it watches the trouble its mother is taking; it gets rid of the bed-wetting habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Favourable results can be obtained if the real cause of the problem is ascertained prior to taking any remedial measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Most of the mother often complains that their children do not like to take food.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It is quite normal that the child will take food as it grows and develops.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But during this process, too, apathy of the child toward foods is noticed.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Very often the child expresses its unwillingness to take particular types of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This however, cannot be termed as a problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Children suffering from problems related to apathy towards food are found unwilling to take any food at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">When forced to eat, they do so slowly and bring the food out of their mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">A number of children run away from their mothers when it is time for them to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Such a behaviour made each time by the child makes the parents victim of the circumstances and unusually busy.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The parents become concerned about successive overall growth and development of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Experiments and observations showed that there are some probable reasons behind this problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">So it becomes easier to take remedial measures if one keeps these probable reasons in view.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Children, most of the time, show reluctance in taking unknown and new types of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">It expresses its apathy towards the new food if this is not according to its likings.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">If this food is forced to it, it develops distaste form all types of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Many a time it brings out the new foods out of its mouth when foods are given to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">This is because the child is yet to be habituated in the new food.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Besides, the child too shows its apathy towards food if it is physically ill.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Attitude of the mother on the food given to the child too, makes the child eager or unconcerned towards taking that food.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">If the mother starts feeding the child with an expression of distaste at the sight of the food, the child will not be interested in taking that food.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Sometimes in order to make the child healthy, the mother brings various types of food of a large quantity in front of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">This too, causes apathy in the child towards food.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">If the food placed in front of the child is tasteless, stale or burnt, then too, the child will express its unwillingness in eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">In order to take remedial measures, one has to identify the definite reasons behind the above matters and take steps accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">One has to serve the food attentively with affection and care while feeding the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">This makes the child have the taste and pleasure of the food to the full extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It is not wise to place the food in front of the child in excess than what is necessary.The food should be served to the child in small quantities.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Attitude of mothers on the food to be served to the child is of much importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Mothers will first ascertain whether the taste of the food is alright or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The child will easily be attracted to the food if the mother tastes the food herself during feeding and makes an expression showing that the food has been tasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">In case there is any physical illness in the child, one has to consult the physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">As the child grows up, it has to be habituated in new types of foods but not quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The new food may be served along with the known foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The child needs to be habituated in new food served in little quantity each time and then the unknown food is to be included in the diet list of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">If, still the child feels inconvenience, then that, too, should be excluded for a certain period.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Force should not be applied to the child in case if it refuses to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Besides children are found to grasp very quickly the fact that their parents will be anxious if they do not like to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">So the parents will make them take food affectionately.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">This means that children look forward to get affection from their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Hence, the child has to be fed in a pleasant environment with love and attentiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It is better not to talk to any body while feeding the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Good results will be obtained in solving the problem if these are followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Anger is an inborn instinct.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The anger or its outburst may become a problem in the life of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">A number of children very often get angry with or without any reason and when overtaken by anger they may do anything they like.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">As a result the surrounding environment becomes prone to dangers.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">This type of regular unwanted behaviour caused by the negligible reasons puts everybody in awkward situations.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">There is a fear of much harm due to such behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Getting angry in this way itself is another behavioural problem of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Outburst of anger may be in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The angry child may cause harm to others without any sense of what is right or what is wrong and may even beat or hit others.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Many a time it rolls on the ground and may even cause physical damage to itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">This type of anger develops generally form the age of two years.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Some probable causes of such types of anger have been found out and are listed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Children may express excessive anger due to various physical illness and in- conveniences.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Specially, the parents repeated inconsistent behaviour towards the child may be a cause of its becoming angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">If the child has an immediate elder or younger brother or sister it may develop malicious tendency towards him or her and as such may express its anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The child may get angry if its needs are not fulfilled in the way it likes.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Disturbance to the child by anybody while it is hungry or fatigued may cause its anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Hindrance to any spontaneous act of the child may make the child angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Once these probable causes are identified, it becomes easy in directing the means of remedial measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Firstly, one has to be ever alert, so that the causes which may make the child angry do not occur in front of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">It is not wise to rebuke or beat the child while it is angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">It may enhance the anger further.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">If the child suffers from any physical inconvenience, the physician needs to be consulted.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Parents after behaving inconsistently with the child have to be careful about such occurrences.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">They should keep in mind that parents behaviours with the child should be good, normal and consistent and this helps to suppress the anger of the child through reducing its obstinacy.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The child's attention is to be focused on any other good item beforehand if it is not possible to provide it with the item it likes.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Although one should not support the outburst of the child's anger, yet one should wait with patience till the child becomes quiet and make it understand, with affection and love, the benefits of good behavior.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">One should not pay attention to the actions of the child if it makes unfair behaviour through expressing obstinacy while it is angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The parents should be quiet during the time when the child expresses excessive excitement.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The parents should face the problem of the child's getting angry with great caution and extreme patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Only then one gets remedial benefits.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The child cries just after birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It is through crying that the child announces its arrival on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">It seems as if this crying is an indication of making others realize the demand of establishing right of the helpless human child.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">This crying is not a problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">As the child continues to grow with the development of mental feeling, it tries to express itself through crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Sometimes it can make others understand and sometimes it cannot.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">It cannot express what it means to say or make others understand itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It becomes disgusted with itself and difficult to control by others.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Others too; express their disgust for the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Afterwards, this unbearable crying gets the shape of behavioural problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">A child in regular habit of excessive crying is identified as a problem child.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">There are several reasons behind the child's crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The child cries if it is physically ill, but cannot express where its convenience lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Very often the child may cry out of jealousy, such as when the mother takes care of another child, takes into her lap in front of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">This makes the child cry and encourages it to beat the other child and snatch others things.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">If it fails to do such actions, it starts crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Uncertainty develops within it due to jealousy.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">This makes it cry for a long period and quite frequently.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Some times some psychological reasons may make the child consider itself as unsuccessful if it fails to do anything according to its will.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Restlessness acts in itself which has its outburst through crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It cries more if others fail to understand the causes and do nothing for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The child begins to cry in excessive anger when its parents behave with it inconsistently due to its various unwanted acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Obstinacy of a restless child increases and it cries even if it is forcibly kept still in a sitting position.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Due to above reasons, the child cries and thereby expresses its obstinacy, anger and some of the rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">But, the child uses its crying as a weapon when such things continue to happen regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">As a result, the child becomes used to crying and creates problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Remedial measures hence are needed to be taken for solving the problem by identifying the specific reasons and keeping the above probable reasons in view.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">If the child suffers from physical discomfort, it has to be ascertained and the physician should be consulted.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Parents should understand the mental actions and reaction of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">If the mother feels that the child does not want her to take care of or take into her lap the other child, she should refrain herself from doing it so long the child has such type of mentality.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">However, as the child grows up, one needs to try to build such mentality within the child that it takes sharing things with others as normal thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Otherwise the child will not be able to become social in later life.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Parents should be able to read the child's mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">They need to ascertain what it wants, what should be or should not be given to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Accordingly, they should try to divert the child's attention toward other good things so that it does not get the scope of thinking about its previous likings.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">One has to give predominance of the mentality of the child towards what it will be allowed to do so that it does not fail in doing that particular thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">This will remove its mental restlessness and help it feel a sense of security.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">It is better not to resist the child form expressing its obstinacy or anger so long it is harmless.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">One needs to take care of the child as it calms down.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">It should be made to understand the ill effects of crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Parents always need to behave consistently with the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Children are naturally restless and unrestrained.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">They become annoyed if they are resisted in such behaviours.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The child, hence, should be kept busy in various encouraging works instead of taken to task to suppress its restlessness.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Parents, as such, should find out new procedures of work regularly and present them in front of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">This will make the child cheerful and busy.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">It will not get any scope of crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Lastly, it can be said that one should find out the reason, as soon as possible, behind any problem and try to solve them.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Otherwise these will become habits of the child and its likely further development will be hampered.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
