<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-homeEco-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.661</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">396</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5047</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1442</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t112">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">All kinds of animals and plants take foods for living.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The plants take water, minerals and manure while the animals take food, milk, eggs, fruits, etc. for their livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">These types of things which are essential for living are called food.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">That is, the materials which help animals and plants to grow up and to live is called food.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">It is not possible to live taking only one kind of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">However, after taking food, some bio- chemical changes happen in human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">This process is called nourishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The substance which helps to grow properly, protects the body from decay and loss, keeps body well, provides strength and energy, regulates the body and makes it healthy, active and well is called food.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">For example, rice, pulses, fish, meat, vegetables, fruits, water etc. are called food.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Various kinds of chemical substances exist in foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Due to these chemical substances, food can regulate the body in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">These very chemical substance are called food ingredients.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">These ingredients do not exist equally in all food.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Due to their variation of existence in food, food ingredients differ from one food to the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">After digestion, the food divides into various ingredients.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">After their absorption, these ingredients play different types of role in a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">For example, it helps the body formulation, protects the body from decay and provides power and energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Nutrition is a bio-chemical process.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Through this process after taking food, it is digested in human body and afterwards it transforms into various substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">These digested ingredients are plain sugar, e.g glucose, amino acid, fat etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Through a bio- chemical process, these elements help to develop tissues, protect body from decay and provide power and energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">This process is called nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The scientific study of nutrition is called nutrition science.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">There are six kinds of food ingredients, viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">protein, carbohydrates, fats, minerals, vitamins and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Among those, protein, carbohydrates and fats are considered to be the most valuable food ingredients.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">A small quantity of minerals and vitamins are needed for the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">But to perform the internal functions of the body, the importance of water in our body is also immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Protein is the most important ingredient in forming muscles and tissues of animals and plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">In the year 1838 Mular first recognized the presence of protein as nitrogenous compound in animal body and plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Protein is very much important for the body formation and growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The basic element of protein is amino acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">If protein is divided chemically, various amino acids will be found.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The amino acid is made of ingredients like carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Through various admixture, the amino acids make protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">There are nearly 25 amino acids which constitute protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The amino acid which is not created inside the body is called essential amino acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Without these, the protein deficiency is found in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">So, these must be taken through food.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">There are eight amino acids which are essential for human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The protein which we get from animals is called animal protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">In the foods which are originated from animals, it exists abundantly and so these types of foods are called protein types of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">In animal protein, the essential amino acid exists proportionately.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">For example, the protein of milk is casein, the protein of egg is albumin, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The protein which we get form plants is called plant protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">In it, a less amount of the essential amino acid exists.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">So, this protein is called secondary protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">This type of protein is found in various rice, pulses, wheat and maize.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The protein which we get from animals is the best one and so it is called the complete protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">It is called the complete protein because the essential amino acid exists here abundantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">These are, milk, eggs, cheese, fish, meat, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">This proteins are getting from plant sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">It is called the partially complete protein because all the essential amino acids are not exists here but the existing amino acids together act as a complete protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">It is a good source of protein for non-vegetarian.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">These are- pulses, ground-nut, peas, wheat, rice etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">There are some types of food with protein but these foods are not considered the source of protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Because the essential amino acid does not exist here.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">These types of food are gelatin, vegetable and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In this protein, in addition to hydro-amino acid, some non-protein substances are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">For example, Phospheprotein (Phosphorus which consists of lipo protein where lipid or fat exists), glycoprotein where carbohydrates exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">These proteins are a part of the molecules of natural proteins or these are a transformed stage of simple or attached proteins.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">These are transformed form of original protein created through digestion.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">For example, Proteoses and Peptones.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The best sources of protein are beef, mutton, poultry, milk, various milk products, fish of different kind.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Besides, various types of pulses and beans, peas, soybean, nuts, peanuts are the other sources of protein Mainly protein helps to build up human body, keep the body formation properly, nourish and protect the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Extra protein is stored in the body and it supplies energy and power when these are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Protein helps to supply oxygen to every cell of the body and participates in building hemoglobin.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Protein helps to create enzymes which are essential for digestion .</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Protein helps to build antibodies which destroy infectious bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">That is, protein develops the power of resistance to diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Protein helps to produce mother's milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The need of protein vary with age and sex.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">After birth, the growth of a child continues up to 25 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">But this rate of growth becomes slower.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">So during the period of rapid growth, the need of protein for the human body becomes the highest.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">But when, the child becomes an adult, protein is needed only for the protection of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">During this period, the demand of protein is proportionately less than the amount he needs previously.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Generally, the demands of protein is higher for the males than the females.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">But during pregnancy, this demand increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">After illness, to overcome the deficiency of health, the demand increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">According to the nutritionists, daily 1 gm.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">protein is needed for an adult.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">To meet up the demand of protein, it is better to take animal and plant proteins at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">But the animal protein should be 1/3 to 1/2 of the total protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">But considering the size of the body and availability of protein in this sub- continent, the requirements of protein for each kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">body weight has been fixed as 0.8 gram instead of 1gm.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Based on the quality of protein, the demands of protein changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">In rice and bread, Lysine, the essential element of amino acid exists insufficiently.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">But in pulses, it exists sufficiently.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">So, the foods like mixed rice and dal or bread and dal help to increase the food value and to meet the demands of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Due to protein deficiency, human body cannot be formed proportionately and if the daily loss of energy is not fulfilled, the body will lose its weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The normal growth of body gets hindered.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Disturbance in digestion is created and various stomach diseases like the problem of liver arise.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Due to lack of protein, the fatal disease like Kwashiorkor occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">As a result, water stores in the body and the body becomes bloodless.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Prolonged deficiency of protein leads to mental disorder.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Loss of appetite is seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The hair and the skin lose their natural glaze.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">If there is a joint deficiency of protein and carbohydrates, the children are affected by a kind of disease called Marasmas which makes the body a skeleton and hinders the usual growth of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Carbohydrates are the main sources of energy in the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Most of the natural foods contain carbohydrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">In the plants, carbohydrates are formed using carbon, hydrogen and oxygen through the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Carbohydrates are colourless, orderless, crystalline and sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">When hydrogen and oxygen mixing with carbon with a proportion of 2:1 produce a compound, the compound is called carbohydrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It is sweet in test.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The other name of carbohydrate is saccharide.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The carbohydrate which is constituted with only one simple molecule of carbohydrate is called mono- saccharide.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Glucose - rice, wheat, grapes, the carbohydrate glucose of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Fructose - The carbohydrate which is found in honey and ripe fruits is called Fructose.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Galactose - This mono- saccharide is not be found freely in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">After being broken, the carbohydrate lactose of milk forms galactose.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The carbohydrate which is formed with the two same carbohydrate molecule is called Di- saccharide.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Lactose - It is the carbohydrate of milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">It can be found in breast-milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">After breaking lactose, glucose and gelatos are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Sucrose- Di- saccharide is found in sugar-cane, beef and in various vegetable and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">After breaking sucrose glucose and fructose are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Maltose - It is found in the starch of rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It is also called malt sugar.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The carbohydrates which are formed with various mono- saccharide is called Poly- saccharide.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Starch - It is found in rice, wheat and the vegetables which grow beneath the soil (e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">potatoes, sweet potatoes, carrots, turnips, tubers etc.).</sent>
				<sent id ="123">It is also found in the trunk of plants (in the arum) and also in the roots of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Apples, bananas also contain starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">After breaking starch, various glucose molecules are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Cellulose- It is found in the trunk and root of plants and also in the cover of fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It is also found in rice, wheat, maize and pulses.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Cellulose is the principal element which forms the plant's body.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Glycogen- It is an animal carbohydrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Excessive carbohydrates is stored in the human body as glycogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The carbohydrates are to be found in sugar, molasses, fruits, carrots, pulses, rice, wheat, honey, sugar-cane, beet etc. Besides, it can be found in fish, meat and milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The carbohydrates which are produced are mostly found in the trunks, roots, leaves and seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">In the world, in every year, 3 crore tons of carbohydrates are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The 1/3 of it is collected from sugar cane.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Carbohydrates work as the fuel for the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">They burn in the cells easily and provide us energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">They spare protein form creating energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">They help to burn fat.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">As glycogen they are stored in various organs and after breaking provide fuel for energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The carbohydrates called cellulose prevent constipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The demand of carbohydrates in food depends on the demand of calories of a human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The foods which contain carbohydrates are known as the energy foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">To meet the basic demands of the body, human beings need calories.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Besides, they also need calories for performing any type of hard work or for working or moving.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">So, the demand of carbohydrate depends on the labour which a person does.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Those who perform much physical labour need more calories.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">According to the nutritionist, 58- 60% demand of calories of human beings should be met by carbohydrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The demand of carbohydrates can be met from fat and protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">An adult person should need 300-650 grams (differs as per labour) of cereals everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It will provide 1200- 2600 calories because 1 gm carbohydrate produces almost 4 calories of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The result of the deficiency of carbohydrates Due to the deficiency of carbohydrates in the body, energy begins to grow by breaking the reserved protein and fats of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">As a result, the body loses the normal weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Less intake of carbohydrates produces ketone and due to this serious disease ketosis occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The quantity of acid in blood increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">As a result human being can lose their senses.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">It creates serious hazards in the metabolism of the brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The excess intake of carbohydrates is deposited in the body as fats.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The excess glucose is transformed into glycogen and is deposited in the liver and in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">As a result it increases the weight of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Excess intake of glucose causes dental caries and diabetes.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Fat and oil are very important ingredients of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">It is the most important element which creates energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Like protein and carbohydrates, fat is also needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The fat stored in our body as energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">It helps to formulate human cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Fat is formed with the chemical admixture of glycerol and fatty acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">That is glycerol + fatty acid fats.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Among the substance of fat, oil, fat, ghee, butter are important.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The characteristics of fat depend on the characteristics of fatty acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The fatty acid which has saturated carbon, is called fats.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">For example, fish, fat of meats, dalda etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The fats which has unsaturated fatty acid is called oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">For example- soyabean oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Due to the structural characteristics of fat, some fats are found in liquid form and the others are found in hard form.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">It includes foods like ghee, butter, fat, the yolk of an egg, meat with fat, cheese etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">It is found in animals oil and in the livers of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">It is found in oil seeds like mustard, soyabean, sesame seeds, linseed, maize, coconut, olive , sunflower oil .</sent>
				<sent id ="178">It is also found in different types of nuts.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Ghee, butter, fat, oil of fish, fatty meat, yolk of eggs, milk, margarine, vegetables, oil of oil-seeds, mustard, sesame oil, linseed, maize, soybean, nut, coconut are the best examples of fatty food and oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">In every day meal, there should be 15 grams of animal fats and 5-10 gram oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">About 20-30 % of the total calories of a human being should come from fat and oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">To meet the requirements of the calories of a human being, it is recommended to take 30-60 gram fat every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">If there is a continuous deficiency of fat and oil in food, the deficiency of some vitamins occurs in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">These are fat soluble vitamins like A, D, E, K. Deficiency of fat and oil for a long time makes the wastage of the reserved protein and creates weight loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The body becomes dry and loses its beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Lack of essential fatty acid creates eczema in the children and the aged people lose the resistance power of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Excessive intake of fat is harmful for the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Overweight is the result of excessive fat intake which destroys the natural beauty of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Excess fat leads to high blood pressure and heart diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Besides protein, fat and carbohydrates, the body needs for its structure and functions, certain basic inorganic elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">These are the minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">They regulate the body process in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Since they are excreted daily by faeces, urine and sweat, they need to be replenished daily.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Some minerals are required in small amounts; they are called trace elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Their requirement must be met daily, otherwise abnormality in body's metabolism is seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Macro minerals : These are required in large amounts, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">phosphorus, sodium, potassium, chlorine, magnesium and sulphur.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Trace minerals : These are required in small quantities, e.g., iron bromine, zinc manganese, copper, cobalt.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The human body contains about 2.3-3.4 percent of calcium and phosphorus of its total body weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Among the different minerals, calcium and phosphorus are found in the highest amount in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Milk, meat, liver, fish, small fish, cheese, pulses, curds, eggs, nuts, cauliflower, dark green leaves, cereals, dates, fruits, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Calcium and phosphorus are necessary for the formation of bone and teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Calcium helps in the function of blood clotting.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Calcium is necessary for contraction and expansion of cardiac muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">They maintain the normal activity of nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">They regulate the muscular excitability and tone.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Carbohydrate and fat need phosphorus for their intermediate metabolism.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Calcium and phosphorus are found in foods that are rich in protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It is needed to form the body structure of the growing child as well as for keeping a sound health of the grown up person.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The daily requirement of calcium is about 800mg.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Additional calcium in the diet is required during pregnancy and lactation.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">In this stage, the daily requirement of calcium phosphorus is about 1.2-1.8gm.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The quantity of iron in human body is much less than calcium and phosphorous.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">But, this small quantity of iron is an essential nutrient.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The total iron content of the normal adult is estimated to be about 3-4 gm.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Two third of the iron in the body is present in blood and the rest is present in the cell, bone-marrow, liver and spleen.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Egg yolk, fish, meat, liver, dark green leaves, molasses, rice, wheat, legumes, dried fruits, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The body uses iron to make hemoglobin for red blood cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">It is essential for carrying oxygen to different tissues.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">About 0.3 percent of iron in hemoglobin is essential for respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Iron plays an important role in metabolism.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">About 10mg. of iron is required daily by an adult person.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Iron requirements are influenced by some factors, such as-requirements of body, type of diet, rate of absorption, loss of iron, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Iron deficiency or anemia is the most common cause of ill health in women.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">This anemia is probably the result of many factors, such as-loss of iron during menstruation, repeated pregnancies, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Iron deficiency also occurs in adult male and children.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">It is the result of many factors, such as-poor intake and absorption, hook worm infection, excessive bleeding from injury, piles or ulcer.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">This anemia is produced by prolonged deficiency of iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Iodine is the most essential and important micro element for human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Body stores iodine in the thyroid gland.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Iodine is the essential constituent of the hormone thyroxin produced by the thyroid gland.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">About 65% of thyroxin is iodine.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Small amount of iodine also occurs in various cells and blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Thyroxin hormone is essential for metabolism and regulation of the body temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Important sources of iodine include food from the sea, such as-sea fish and iodized salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Besides, it exists in plants grown in soil that contains enough iodine, such as the sea coast area.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Iodine is necessary for the synthesis of thyroxin.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">It is essential for metabolism.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">It is essential for the development of hair, skin and bone.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">It helps in the normal development of brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">e. Iodine is necessary for the foetal development in pregnancy and essential for production of breast milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The common effect of iodine deficiency is goitre.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">If sufficient iodine is not taken, the enlargement of the thyroid gland takes place resulting the disease called goiter.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Mental deficiency is caused by iodine deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The child's physical growth is retarded.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Abortions and congenital abnormalities are seen in iodine deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Sodium and potassium Sodium and potassium are essential minerals for life.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The adult body contains about 90gm. of sodium and 200gm. of potassium.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The bones contain about 30 gm. of sodium.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The cells of the body contain potassium and body fluids contain sodium.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Sodium and potassium are also found in bones and teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Salted fish, cheese, canned meat, butter, eggs, milk, fish, meat, legumes, wheat, molasses, puffed rice, nuts, vegetables and fruits, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Spinach, beets, potatoes, tomatoes, carrots, bananas, oranges, grapes, and coffee etc. contain sodium and potassium.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">It regulates acid-base balance of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">It regulates osmotic pressure of plasma and tissue fluid and thus protects the body against excessive fluid loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Potassium maintains normal transmission of nerve impulses.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Sodium plays an important role in the absorption of carbohydrate and fats form the small intestines.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">It regulates water deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The requirement of sodium is 2-4gm a day which can be easily supplied in a normal diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">A normal adult requires only 2-4gm of potassium daily.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Vitamin is vital to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">A very small quantity of vitamin is needed for maintaining good health.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">However, if vitamins are not present in sufficient quantities in the diet, vitamin deficiency diseases occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Only a hundred years ago, scientists found the vitamins in fresh food.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Plants synthesize various vitamins in their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Green leaves of plants are the main sources of vitamins.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">It is also found in trunks, flowers, fruits and roots of trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Man and other animals are directly dependent on plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The herbivorous animals are also good source of vitamins for man.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Animals store vitamins in liver, muscles, and other parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Cows store vitamins in milk and ducks store in eggs for meeting their need for future off springs.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">So far about fifteen different vitamins have been isolated in a pure state from natural foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Almost all of them are essential for human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Vitamins may be classified broadly into two groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">a.insoluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Water soluble vitamins i.e., vitamins that are soluble in water but insoluble in fats and fat solvents.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Vitamins play very important role in animal body.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Vitamins are associated with various functions of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">They are essential for growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">They help to maintain good health and vigour during growing stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">They help in keeping normal digestion.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">They help in utilization of minerals in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">They help in metabolism of every produced nutrient They are essential for strengthening the nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">They protect the body against infections.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">They are essential for normal and healthy productive system.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">In 1913 Mccollum and Davis discovered Vitamin-A.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Vitamin-A is insoluble in water but soluble in fat.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Ordinary cooking does not destroy Vitamin A but over cooking does, because it is easily destroyed by air and light during cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Vitamin A is found in both animal and plant sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Animal sources such as-milk, eggs, butter etc. contain Vitamin A, but plant sources contain pro-vitamin A which is converted into vitamin A in the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Carotene, a precursor of vitamin A is found in all yellow, orange and chlorophyll containing compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Carotene is converted into Vitamin A in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Cod liver oil, liver, ghee, egg, cheese etc. contain large amounts of Vitamin A and carrots, pumpkins, ripe mangoes, dark green leaves, maize, ripe tomatoes, ripe papayas etc. contain large amounts of pro-vitamin-A.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">The retina of the eyes contain photosensitive cells of rhodesian and iodeosin, which help vision in both dim and bright light, Vitamin A is an integral part of such cells and helps in normal vision.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Vitamin A is essential for the health of the epithelial tissues of skin, and kidney.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">It helps to prevent dental decay.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">It helps to form strong bones and teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">It helps in normal reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Vitamin A also helps in the digestion of carbohydrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">750g retinol of vitamin A and 4500g of carotene are required for boys, adult males and females and pregnant mothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Requirement for lactating mother is 1200g retinol of vitamin A and 7200g of carotene.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Fat soluble vitamin D is sometimes called the anti-rachitic vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">The term rachitic denotes the condition of a person affected with vitamin D deficiency disease called rickets.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">It is also called the disease of poor children.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">The scientists demonstrated that cod liver oil contains vitamin D. The other name of this vitamin is cholecalciferol.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Liver oil of seafish such as, Cod, Halibut, Shark etc, animal fat, liver, milk butter, ghee, egg yolk are good sources of this vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Vitamin D is not present in foods of vegetable origin.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Ultra violet ray of sunlight converts the cholesterol in the skin into vitamin D. Vitamin D helps in the absorption and utilization of calcium and phosphorus in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">It promotes strong bones and teeth formation by properly utilizing calcium and phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Delayed dentition and ability to walk is seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Calcium and phosphorus of food are not properly utilized In vitamin D deficiency, calcification of bone does not take place.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">This results in the disease called rickets in vitamin D deficient infants and children.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">In this disease the head is usually enlarged, elongated and box like.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Skeletal malformations occur because of the inability of soft bones to withstand the stress of body weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">The biochemical name of vitamin-E is Tocopherol.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Cod liver oil, ground nut, wheat, oat, sunflower seed oil, soyabean oil, palm oil, germinated gram, wheat germ, eggs etc. are sources of vitamin E. It is an active antioxidant, preventing oxidation of carotene, vitamin A and unsaturated fatty acids.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">It is required for normal reproductive function in animals and it prevents sterility in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">An average adult diet contains enough vitamin-E.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The daily allowance is 5-10mg.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Vitamin E deficiency in animals causes reproductive failure.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">The scientist Dam discovered this vitamin between the years 1910 and Vitamin K. is another important vitamin which is soluble in fat.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">It is also known as anti bleeding or coagulation substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">More than half of the human requirement of vitamin K is met from the synthesis by bacteria in the lower intestinal tract of the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">So a deficiency of vitamin K is not normally seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Green leaves cauliflower, cabbage, lettuce, spinach, egg yolk, beef liver etc. are good sources of vitamin K. Promotes proper blood clotting after cuts or surgery and thus prevents bleeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">It helps in energy producing reactions of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Vitamin K deficiency leads to lowering of prothrombin (a protein that helps to form blood clot) level and increased clotting time of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">This helps the hemorrhagic condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Lack of bile secretion occurs due to deficiency of vitamin K.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">The requirement of vitamin K for adult is 40 micrograms per day and for pregnant woman is 1mg per day.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Vitamin B is not a single vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Vitamin B complex comprises of 15 chemical substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">It has been established that eight of these are required by human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">These are- Thiamine (B1), Riboflavin (B2), Nicotinic acid, folic acid, pyridoxine (B6), Cyarocobalamine (B12), biotin and pantothenic acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">These all B Vitamins are water soluble and can be destroyed by heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Thiamine or B1 prevents beriberi; and so it is called antiberiberi vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Rice polishing (parboiled), wheat, oats, liver, egg, yeast, fish, milk, green pea, soybean, peanut, pulses, wheat germ, germinated gram, etc. are good sources of thiamine.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">It plays an important role in energy production from the metabolism of carbohydrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">The daily requirement of thiamine is 0.5 mg per 1000 calorie demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">The symptoms of thiamine deficiency include weakness, loss of appetite, nausea and mental instability.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">These defects happen because of diminished utilization of carbohydrate and production of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Severe deficiency of thiamine produce causes beriberi.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">This water soluble vitamin is stable to heat; so it is not destroyed by heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">However, it is sensitive to light.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Good sources of riboflavin include dark green leafy vegetables, fruits, whole grains and cereals, liver, dried yeast, egg yolk, milk, fish, meat, pulses, nuts etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">It functions with other substances to metabolize carbohydrates, fats and proteins for the release of energy from food.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">It is necessary for growth and good health.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Riboflavin requirement is 0.6mg per 1000 cal.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">A deficiency of riboflavin does not cause any disease, but the symptoms include cracking at lip corners, sore tongue, loss of hair, eye problems etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">The other name of this vitamin is Folacin.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">If helps in the metabolism of protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">It is vital for the formation of red blood cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">The most important deficiency symptom in girls and in pregnant women is the development of a kind of anemia, which is called megaloblastic anemia.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Niacin which includes two other substances called nicotinic acid and nicontinamide, is a water soluble vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Niacin is not destroyed by heat, acid, alkali, light and oxidation.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Niacin is found in meat, liver, wheat, pulses, nuts, oil seeds, gram and green leafy vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">It is also formed by the conversion of amino acid tryptophan.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Tryptophan present in the dietary protein is converted into niacin in the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">It has been estimated that 60mg of tryptophan yield 1 mg niacin.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">It helps in carbohydrate metabolism and in fat synthesis from carbohydrate and protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">It prevents the disease pellagra.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Pellagra, is the deficiency disease caused by the lack of sufficient niacin in the diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">The symptoms of this condition is generally known as the disease of three D's i.e. dermatitis, diarrhoea, and dementia.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Deficiency of niacin is weakness, headache, loss of weight, loss of appetite, indigestion and eczema like skin disease on exposed surfaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Requirements Vitamin C is a water soluble substance with a sour (acid) taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">It is easily destroyed by oxygen and heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Vitamin C is not stored in the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">So it is essential to take Vitamin C daily.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">It prevents scurvy.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">So it is also called antiscorbutic vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Citrus fruits and fresh vegetables contain large amounts of vitamin C. Amlakis, guavas, oranges, lemons, starfruits, pineapples, black berries, tomatoes, green peppers, etc. contain large amount of vitamin C. Germinated seeds, lettuce and other green leaves also contain Vitamin-C.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">It helps in keeping normal and healthy gums and teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">It speeds up healing of wounds after surgery of injury.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">It helps in the metabolism of carbohydrate, protein and fat.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">It helps the body to build and maintain a protein-collagen necessary for strengthening connective tissues.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">It helps the body to maintain normal and healthy skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">It helps in preventing many types of infectious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">The disease scurvy is produced by prolonged deficiency of Vitamin-C.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Water is a vital element for all animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">About 70 percent of the total body weight consists of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Almost every part of body like blood, tissues, nerves, teeth, bones contain large amounts of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Almost all foods contain some water.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Liquid diet or different types of drinks such as - milk, lassi, sherbet, tea, coffee, fruit juice, soup, sugar cane juice, coconut water, etc. contain large amount of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Other soft or solid diets also contain water.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">It helps to regulate and integrate different types of functions of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">It works as an essential medium for excreting waste products through urine, faeces and sweat.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Water takes part in all metabolic processes and is essential for digestion.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">It prevents constipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">It maintains the normal concentration of blood and works as a transport medium for transporting the essential elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">It also helps in the regulation of body temperature and keeps the body healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">The amount of water lost through urine, sweat and faeces should be replaced to maintain a water balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">The total water requirement of an adult under ordinary condition is about 2 litres.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Deficiency of water increases concentration of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">As a result, muscle weakness and nerve weakness, problems in digestion of food occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Water deficiency leads to thirst and low blood pressure and increase body temperature.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
