<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-homeEco-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.6</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">233</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3948</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1103</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t110">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The teenage period is a period of special significance in human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This period of life is very complex and is full of various problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Every human being has to come across this stage while attaining full grown age.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Hence, some proper knowledge, that is, when this teenage stage begins and up to what span of time it continues are needed to be known.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">According to psychologists, the age limit of a teenage boy or girl is between 10 years and 19 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The physical change is the main characteristics of this stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">There is a slight variation in this age limit depending upon whether the child is a boy or a girl.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">This is so because the physical transformation of girls occur several years before the boys.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Hence, it can be said that in case of girls, such physical transformation takes place form 10 years up to 16 years of age and in case of boys, from 13 years up to 19 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Generally, the age span from 10 years up to 19 years is regarded as the age limit of teenagers.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Psychologists have divided this time span into two parts, for example 10 to 13 years of age as pre-teenage or pre-adolescence and 13 to 19 years of age as late teenage or adolescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The stage when childhood and youth stages meet together is known as the teenage stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The growing children of this period are unable to understand at which stage of development they exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Question arises whether they at this stage of their lives, are non-adult or adult youths.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The special significance of this stage of life is the quick physical transformation among boys and girls.At this stage, girls step into full womanhood and they have their physical development like that of full grown young women.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">This process of transformation does not commence suddenly or does not come to an end abruptly on a single day.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">In girls, this transformation starts in at the age of ten to eleven years and continues till sixteen to seventeen years of age.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">In case of boys, too, the process of this transformation starts at the age of 13 to 14 years and continues till they attain the age of 19 to 20 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Among the girls, the mental as well as psychological transformation, too, are observed simultaneously with their physical transformation.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">At times, the teenagers like to see themselves in the role of adult women or that of adult men.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Again, at times, they think of themselves as non- adult boys or non-adult girls.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">They are at a loss whether they have anything to do and what they are to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Due to their physical transformation they are found to have attraction towards the opposite sexes belonging to their age group.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Everything combined together, at a time, they are absorbed in unreal and imaginary thoughts.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">A kind of restlessness exists in them due to disturbances in their conscious and subconscious mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">They are found to quarrel or dispute with their parents over some issues.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">They do not like to obey the restriction imposed by their parents; they disobey their rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Many a time, they are inclined to friend groups according to their choices defying their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Psychologists hence have termed this stage of human life as the one of disturbances.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The parents need to know the characteristics of teenagers.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">They have to face much difficulties in directing their children of this age group and need to take much significant caution in this aspect.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Many a time, the views of the teenagers need to be given priority over others.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">But yet, the parents need to be conscious about their movements and behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">In each family, children belonging to this critical age group have to play an important role.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Parents expect a lot form the children of this age group who are finding their places in the family as almost full grown persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">It is after this stage that the teenagers become the earning family member and shoulder many responsibilities of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">They have to participate in some important and effective decision making of the family as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">In case any of the teenagers, if he or she is the eldest child of the family, he or she has to perform various responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Looking after younger brothers and sisters, helping them in their studies, too are included in their duties and responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">This reduces the pains which the parents have to experience in the fruitful implementation of some work of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Moreover, if the teenager happens to be the only child of the family his or her importance in the family increases further.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Because, the child has to have clear view of his/her future from this very stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">He/she has to make himself/herself prepared as he/she will have to enshoulder all the responsibilities of his/her parents during the later stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The teenage girl prepares herself for the future in taking still greater responsibilities in helping her mother arranging daily routine work of the father, nursing the ailing persons, looking after younger brothers and sisters through assuming the position of the central personality in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The teenage boy helps his father in various outdoor work by remaining at his side all the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It is the boys of this age who generally perform all outdoor work of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Besides, he can maintain peace in the family through meeting the small demands of the younger brothers and sisters and solving various problems concerning them.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Physically and mentally, these children of such critical age group become the store house of much energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They can also easily perform a number of complicated tasks of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">There goes a saying that children of this age group are the assets of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Teenagers appear in the family just at a time when the parents consider to retire from their respective work after some what performing their responsibilities in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">It is this period when activities take place in the family in preparation for full-scale transfer of responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">It is, hence needless to mention the extent of importance of the position of teenagers in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">From a different angle, it can be said that the physical and mental transformation of the children during adolescence takes place in such a pace that very often they fail to cope with the change that are taking place.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">This may result in various problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Many a time, they do not obey their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">They disregard the rule of their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Parents have to understand the circumstances and face them with patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">They should give importance on the behaviour of these children.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">During adolescence, a sense of freedom is found in the behaviour of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Their behaviour shows irresistible and unobstructable speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">This speed cannot be allowed to go on in an uncontrolled way.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Parents, hence, like to restrain their children, impose restriction on them and observe their movements.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The adolescents most of the time does not like to obey this rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">This results in altercation.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">This types of freedom many a time, misleads the children, causes them deviate form the cherished path.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">They cannot reach their goals as desired by their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">This period is very much critical during the life span of human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">But if one can come across this period with caution and success, the rest of one's life will be full of happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">He can successfully earn competence to bear the full responsibility of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">It is for this reason, all the members of the family should attach special importance on the teenagers.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">During adolescent period, two main reasons behind the differences of opinion with the parents can be mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">One of these is too much sense of freedom and the other is too much child-like behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Often the teenagers are found making child- like behaviour, found to quarrel with their younger brothers and sisters having less tolerance.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">As a consequence of expressing the sense of freedom they have difference of opinion with their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">However, there are variations in the mode of expressing the sense of freedom.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">This depends completely on the prior-relationship of the teenagers which has been established with their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">According to the psychologists, the children during their adolescence maintain intimacy with their parents if the relationship of the parents with them during their early stages is full of love and affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The parents then do not express their over dominance on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Then the children behave with their parents consistently instead of quarrelling or disputing over anything with them, even they absorb themselves in every sphere of the family, become one with the members in their happiness and sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But in such cases, the parents have to play supporting roles towards the good deeds of their children.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The children at this stage need to be given predominance and importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Thus, the parents unconsciously become bent upon the decisions of their teenaged children and the children gradually emerge as important personalities in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The period of adolescence makes the world of the children a new one.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">During this period, a quick transformation both physical as well as mental is observed among the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">New consciousness develops among them along with this transformation.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">New requirements in various forms are found to develop.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">They are faced with various forms of needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Teenagers attain their quick physical developments.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">When the childhood is over, children begin to grow in height quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">They reach the highest limit of their tallness during this very adolescent stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The girls attain their physical structure like that of women whereas the boys attain that of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">This becomes apparent externally in everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Besides, various internal parts of the body and also the sex organs become well developed and grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">During adolescence, stomach, lungs and heart too, grow significantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Metabolic activities of the body increases proportionately along with such changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">During adolescence, need of food increases due to such transformation of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Normal teenagers are found to take significant quantity of food beyond their regular food habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Their general growth increases in its rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">As a result, the nutritional needs of the teenagers increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">During this period, as the quantity of food to be taken increases, the qualitative aspect of the food, too, needs to be looked after considering the growth factor.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Children, during this time, become irresistible, unsteady and restless.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Extra energy is spent in sports and movements, besides, they do different work that involve still more physical labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">They need food having more calorific values.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Moreover, adolescence is an important as well as the best period for accomplishing studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Study, too requires extra vital force.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Hence considering the qualitative value of food, the children, at this stage, need extra amounts of carbohydrates, oils and fats which meet the calorie need of their bodies and provide the extra vital force.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Along with these, vitamin enriched foods are necessary for proper and efficient functioning of their brains.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Otherwise, if the requisite needs of food are not supplied to meet the loss due to various work, they will become physically thin and weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">To meet the needs of ongoing physical development, high quality animal protein, iron, calcium, phosphorus and other mineral salts need to be provided through their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Therefore, provision is to be made to supply milk, eggs, fish and meat in daily food.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">If the children do not take balanced food daily, they will feel physically weak everyday and as a result they will not be able to concentrate in their work.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">It is necessary to make provision for sufficient quantity of vegetables and fruits in their food in order to meet their daily vitamin needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">It is not difficult to arrange less expensive indigenous fruits if one consider the financial aspects.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Vitamins enhance the disease resistant force of the body and hence, help to keep the body free of diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Thereafter, above all, liquid food is necessary in order to maintain healthy workable body.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Various types of beverages, like soft drinks, fruit juice and milk can be served to the teenagers.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">They vitalize their body with extra energy when they come back home after losing their energy to a large extent through sports and outdoor works.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Along with physical transformation of the girls, there is some normal loss of blood in every month due to monthly menstruation.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">This loss needs to be replenished through food.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In order to meet this need, therefore, provision is to be made to supply milk, eggs and fresh vegetables in their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Required exercise and requisite rest are needed to meet the physical needs of the adolescent during adolescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">In order to have a nice and beautiful physical development, regular and requisite exercise is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">As the children are engaged in sports and some physical labour during adolescence, light exercise is sufficient for efficient development of various organs of their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Because, if excessive energy is spent in exercise, requisite rest and sleep, too, are necessary in meeting daily physical needs of the teenagers.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Rest vitalizes and energizes the body and prepares it for the next work.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It is through sleep that full rest is possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Teenagers need to sleep for six to seven hours in order to keep the body fit.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The parents in the family have to pay their attention towards meeting these needs of their children so that they can grow appropriately during adolescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Body and mind are closely related to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Physical development and mental growth are interdependent.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">During adolescence, as physical development takes place among the children, their mental growth also occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">But the extent of mental transformation is more compared to physical transformation.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The various mental transformations of the teenagers cannot be quantified through numbers or measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The nature of mental transformation is to be felt by insight through the behaviours of the teenagers.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Some sorts of mental appetite are noticed among them while they cope with their mental transformation.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It is for satisfying the mental appetite, the emergence of mental needs takes place.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Inspiration and liking for work are inborn tendency of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Teenagers want to work as a consequence of their natural instincts.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">They like to create, construct, invent or discover new things.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Excessive creative genius is there along with inspiration to work more among the adolescents.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Opportunities for such should be created in the form of various work in the family to meet their mental appetite.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Apart from this, in schools, too, such needs of the teenagers can be met through introducing co-curricula along with normal studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Any one of them may create something while the other of the same age group may enjoy it.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Hence, it is possible to meet the mental needs of teenagers through arranging various creative exhibitions, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">During the beginning of adolescence period, teenagers become introvert due to their mental transformation.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">They like to have love and affections.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Hence, persons associated with teenagers both within and outside the family need to provide them with love and affection through their various activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Giving and receiving love and affection is an inborn instinct of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It is the children who are grown under the loving care of their parents during adolescence can impart effective shape to their strong desire of transaction of love and affection in later stages of their lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Hence, this depends on the way how one can meet the mental needs of children during their adolescent period.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Teenagers like to have freedom in fulfilling their mental desires.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">This sense of freedom often makes them self dependent.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Another mental need of this age is attraction towards the opposite sex.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The need of the company of boy or girl is observed among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">They feel and want the company of the opposite sex.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">As a consequence of this inborn desire, they become capable of playing the roles of husband and wives when they are adults.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">At this age, they also overcome their dependence on others and, due to influence of the sense of freedom, and the need of self dependence is also observed among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">During the later part of adolescence period, the children think much about themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">They select their profession gradually for themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">If they are provided with education according to their need and capabilities, they will be satisfied mentally, their self dependence will have its firm basis and they will be able to establish themselves in their lives easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">During adolescence, children become imaginative and thoughtful.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Impractical imagination and day dreams are the characteristics worth-mentioning at this age.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The needs created among them due to rapid physical and mental conditions cannot, most of the times, be possible to implement immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Day dream may be related to self- establishment and from this arises the questions related to the philosophy of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">What is meant by life?</sent>
				<sent id ="167">In what lies its success?</sent>
				<sent id ="168">How can one establish oneself?</sent>
				<sent id ="169">such mental needs, too, are noticed among the teenagers.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Besides the above, expressing the emotions of mind, gossiping to pass the leisure hours, listening to songs, going for walk or traveling, love for friends, etc., also include the mental needs during adolescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The parents need to analyze these needs of the teenagers and should make arrangements to take timely actions to meet them.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Human beings live in groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Human beings by their very nature, feel the necessity of companion in order to be social.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">It becomes easy to know what the needs of children of this age are and to understand the importance of these needs through participation and the expression of eagerness for participation in various social activities during adolescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">It is the interest of meeting the needs of freedom during adolescence that attracts the teenagers towards groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Their group relations extend over a long time during this period.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">They make their movements more freely than they used to do during the previous years.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">They remain almost free of the rule and supervision of elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Teenagers exchange their ideas with those contemporary to their age in schools.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">They discover their existence, evaluate their own fitness through various group activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">They select their positions in the group through group activities, such as, they decide whether to become leaders of the groups they belong or to be members of the groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">As they grow in age they become conscious about their own existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">This sense of existence qualifies their personalities.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Expressing eagerness to introduce themselves through their own activities in the society, too, are among the social needs of adolescent children.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">During this period, teenagers like to come in contact with various persons of the society in order to establish themselves in the society through uncovering their own personalities.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">As their own sense of existence develops, the children try to do these activities by themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The parents have their roles also to play in this regard.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">It can be said, for example, that parents should widen the way for the children to become social as the children take initiatives to make their existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">They may provide opportunities to their children to participate in various social development activities and competitive work such as volunteering.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">This will enable the children to introduce their own personalities in the society in order to protect themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Parents may help them meet their social needs through this means also.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Besides, they may encourage their children towards various social activities through direct controls, too, along with giving them various directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">This will make their children making themselves known as responsible persons of the society by expressing their presence through engaging themselves in the above activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">During this period the parents ought to suggest their children how to be social or how to come in contact with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">As an example, it can be said that too much sense of influence and too much sense of rights do not, most of the time, help anyone build social relationships.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Because, if one shows supremacy through utilizing one's influence and making expression to mean this is mine, I shall have it or tendency to establish one's own rights, the friendship cannot be there rather it may result in bitter relations.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">During adolescence, group feeling has much influence on the lives of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">It is the group which is given predominance by them in their activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Some of them may be the group leader and others may be members of a single group.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">They bend upon the group and undertake present and future programs group-wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">They maintain same likings and same feelings in the group.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Sports are also performed by the group.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Sports is a social process.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">This enhances their power of imagination and develops their moral character.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">However, social needs constitute a fundamental aspect of children belonging to adolescent stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Parents need to be sympathetically more conscious in meeting these needs efficiently.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Effects of the number of family members in meeting the needs of adolescents In order to ensure the overall development of the adolescent children, it is absolutely necessary that the identified needs of this age are to be met.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">In most of the cases the teenagers are found unable to cope with the waves of changes in their physical and mental conditions if the needs of adolescents are not met in due course.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Physical development among the teenagers is hampered if their physical needs are not fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Simultaneously they become thin and weak physically.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">They do not find eagerness to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">As a result, there is harm to their mental health also.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Unfulfilled mental needs give rise to manifold mental contradictions.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">In the family, their contradictions and quarrel with their parents become profoundly visible which eventually disrupt peace in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Teenagers are found to involve themselves in anti-social activities if their social needs are not met.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Their tendency to revolt against their parents continues to increase if the needs of their freedom and self-dependence are not fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Under such circumstances, the teenagers get themselves absorbed in impractical imaginations and day dreams which cause obstruction in the proper development of their personalities.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">In such cases, the teenagers are found also to have delinquent behaviours.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Hence, parents should analyze the ways through which their children can perform their activities with freedom and fulfill their needs through best possible means by paying due regards to their adolescent philosophy of life and keeping pace with their needs concerning their self establishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">But number of family members has a considerable effect in fulfilling such needs of adolescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Most of the families have limited income.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Interests of all the members cannot be looked after if the number of children or that of family members is more in a family having limited income.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">It becomes impossible for parents to take care of each and every child equally if the number of children is higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Besides this, altercations and quarrels are found to occur between the parents if there is want and failure in fulfilling other needs of the children in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">As a result the peace in the family is hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Under such circumstances it becomes difficult to make provisions for meeting the physical needs of the children such as food and rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Along with these it also becomes impossible to fulfil their mental needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Due to many children, parents do not even get the scope to look after their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">In such a family, the children get deprived of affections of their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">This lack of attention and want cause the children to suffer from mental instability.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Children seek mental peace elsewhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Many a time they are identified as delinquent teenagers in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Hence, another responsibility of the parents is to keep the number of family members within limits and pave the way to fulfil the needs of their children efficiently.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
