<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-islam-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.701</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">380</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5404</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1480</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t113">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In the Arabic language, Aqaid is the plural form of Aqida.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Aqida means belief, and Aqaid means a series of belief.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Aqaid is the principal basis of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The aspects of Aqaid are proved by the obvious Ayats of the Qur'an Majeed and pure Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">So the significance of Aqaid is unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">What is Islam?</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The meaning of the term Islam is to show loyalty, to surrender, to lead life in the path of peace etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Islam means belief in Allah in heart and to remain completely loyal with full submission to Him, to abide by all the orders and forbiddings of Allah without hesitation and to lead life in accordance with the laws prescribed by Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The person who complies with the laws of Islam is a Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Islam is the only nominated religion of Allah, which is the complete code of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">A Muslim has to lead his/her life in the light of this code from the cradle to the grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">There are well-ordered social, political and economic systems in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">There are guidelines and principles for national and international interactions in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">There can be no alternative of Islam for the development of human character and in the formation and preservation of a progressive and well-ordered society based on the principles of equity and justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">To lead the life of a Muslim, a person must follow the teachings of Islam on the basis of global brotherhood, unity, equity, generosity, humanity, tolerance to others opinions and principles of justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">It is absolutely essential for every man and woman to acquire Islamic knowledge and read Islamic Studies to lead a life in accordance with the teachings of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The meaning of the term Iman is faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">To believe in the fundamental aspects of Islam heartily, to recognize them orally and to act accordingly is called Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">There exists a close and inseparable relationship between Iman and Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Islam is the outward expression of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Iman maintains the same relation with Islam as the roots of a tree does with the stem, the branches and the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The nutrients collected by the roots from the soil keep the stem, the branches and the leaves of trees lively and green.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Iman produces the zeal of love for Allah and the desire to gain His satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Thus Islam becomes lively and fresh and flourishes in complete beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">A Muslim must have faith (Iman) in particular fundamental aspects.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">One must believe in heart as Allah to be the one and only Creator, Preserver and Entity deserving to get iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The angels are made of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">They are special creations of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">They do not require eating or drinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">They are always engaged in different activities ordered by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">They never disobey orders of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">It is necessary to have faith in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Allah used to send messages to the holy Prophets from age to age to lead the misled mankind to the right direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The combination of these messages is called the Kitab of Allah or the Heavenly Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The Prophets are the teachers of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">They led mankind to the path of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The Prophets on whom the holy kitabs or the holy sahifas were revealed are called Rasuls.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">It is essential to have faith in the Prophets as well as the holy kitabs.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Life after death is called Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">One has to account for ones worldly good as well as bad deeds in Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Reward for the worldly good deeds and punishment for the bad deeds will be given in Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Allah controls Takdir (luck).</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Allah decides whether a person will have good or bad luck.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Man should try and work.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He should endeavour, but for the results of his work and endeavour, he should depend on Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">One should be grateful to Him if one succeeds and should have patience when one fails.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">All human beings will arise at the Hashar Maidan (the Field of Judgement) in the life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">There they will have to account for their respective deeds in the mortal world.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Their trial will be held on evidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">This is called resurrection.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">We must have full faith in these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">We have come to know the meaning of Islam, the role of Islam in human life and the importance of Islamic education.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">We have also come to know about the deep and close relationship between Iman and Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Islam can not be imagined without Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Again, we cannot get good result of Iman without practising Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">We have learnt that Iman comprises of seven basic aspects.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">We will truly reflect our belief in our lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">We will mould our lives basing on Iman and good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Allah, the Creator of the universe, is one, second to none and incomparable.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">This belief in Allah is called Tauhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The meaning of the term Tauhid is oneness.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">In the Islamic terminology, Allah is the only Creator, Preserver and Entity deserving to get iba'dat and loyalty.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">To accept and believe in this Single Entity is called 'Tauhid'.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Meaning: If there had been more than one Illah excepting Allah in heavens and on earth, they would have been destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Faith in Allah is the most important of all the fundamental aspects of Islam in which one has to believe.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">This is the first aspect of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Tauhid is the basis of faith in Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">All the teachings of Islam is based on the belief in Tauhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Innumerable prophets beginning from the first prophet Hazrat Adam(A) to the last prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) came to this earth for the correction of mankind, and all of them struggled to establish Tauhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Hazrat Ibrahim (A) was thrown into fire in this struggle.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) also endured ruthless tortures and was compelled to perform Hizrat (migration).</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Salvation from the bonds of slavery of innumerable creations can be gained if the Lordship of one Allah is accepted.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Those who believe in Tauhid do not bow down their heads before any man, matter, nature or power.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The belief in Tauhid arouses a sense of self-consciousness and self-respect in man.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">This belief creates unity among all creations ignoring all divisions among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Magnanimous outlooks are formed as a result of the belief in Tauhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Nothing can mislead a believer in Tauhid from his determination.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">He is inspired to do good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Who is Allah?</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Allah, the Almighty, is one and second to none in respect of Allah's entity and attributes.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Allah is incomparable in entity, attributes, acts, powers and in all other respects.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">There is nothing that can be compared to Allah's entity and attributes.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">It is declared in the Qur'an Majid: There is nothing like Him (Allah).</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He (Allah) is without a beginning and without an end.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">He (Allah) is ever alive and everlasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Allah creates whatever Allah likes and controls Allah's creations according to Allah's own will.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The moon, the sun, the planets and the stars are being controlled in their own orbits by Allah in a unique and wonderful system.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">No indiscipline of any kind is found here.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">This proves that Allah is One and second to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">If Allah had not been one, various types of indiscipline and collisions would have occurred in regulating the universe and the whole universe would have been destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">What is Kufr?</sent>
				<sent id ="92">To have faith in the fundamental aspects of Islam means Iman and to have no faith in them means Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The meaning of the term Kufr is to veil, to conceal, to disbelieve, to refuse, to be disloyal and ungrateful.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In the Islamic terminology, to disbelieve and disagree the existence of Allah is called Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">In the same way, to disbelieve the fundamental aspects of Islam, in which we must have belief, is also called Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">To bear the signs of Kufr, to wear the cross and paita willfully and openly are acts of Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The person who is engaged in the Kufri activities is called a Kafir.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The creation of the whole universe is a clear evidence of the existence and oneness of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The person who is a Kafir conceals this great truth, denies and disbelieves it.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Human beings are always blessed with innumerable Niamats (gifts) of Allah, the most Gracious.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Fire, water, light, air, everything are the gifts of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Hands, legs, eyes, ears, brain, knowledge, intelligence, strength and ability of human beings are all Allah's gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Even after having these, the person who denies Allah is extremely ungrateful, disloyal and a Kafir.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The kafir is ungrateful: Who can be more ungrateful than the person who is not grateful even after enjoying innumerable gifts (Niamat) of Allah?</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The ungrateful person has no dignity in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Severe punishment awaits him in Akhirat (the life hereafter).</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The kafir is disloyal and hostile: A Kafir is disloyal to the supreme powerful Allah and opposes the rules and discipline, principles and regulations imposed by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He becomes hostile to Allah and his punishment for being so is severe.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Kufr is the vilest julum (tyranny): The limbs of a Kafir will complain in the court of Allah against himself in the field of judegment.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">They will say: He/she has directed us to evil acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Allah will then severely punish this hostile jalim (tyrant).</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Pessimism: A man becomes unsuccessful and pessimistic because of Kufr and disloyalty to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">This is because he/she has no reliability on Alllah.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The consequence of an unsuccessful and pessimistic person is very tragic, because he/she cannot accept worldly failure.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The eternal punishment: Allah says: Those who will disbelieve, and regard my orders as false ones, are the very inhabitants of jahannam (the hell).</sent>
				<sent id ="116">They will live there for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">If the Kafir, being ashamed and repentant, surrenders to Allah and expresses firm determination not to commit sins like these in future, he/she may expect to be pardoned.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">What is Shirk?</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Shirk means partnership, i.e. to believe in more than one Creator and more than one Lord to offer iba'dat (worship) to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">To make partner with Allah by regarding and comparing someone as having the same attributes as that of Allah in any respect is called Shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The person, who commits Shirk, is called a Mushrik.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">To equate any power or object in the iba'dat (worship) of Allah is also Shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Allah, the Holiest, says about the severity of the heinous sin of Shirk:</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Meaning: Certainly Allah does not pardon the heinous sin of committing Shirk with Him(Allah).</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Other than this, He (Allah) may pardon any other sin of anybody as He (Allah) likes.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Shirk is not only an unpardonable crime, it is also disgraceful to human beings, the best creation of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Allah has created man to offer iba'dat (adoration) only to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">And Allah has created all other things for the benefit of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Human beings are endowed with such attributes that can help them control all other creations and make use of them for their own purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">But by bowing down before all these creations, the Mushriks disgrace themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Unrest and divisions are created in human society through shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Differences between the small and the big are also created.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The Mushriks also bow down before different inert objects, gods and goddesses, images, natural powers etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This is extremely disgraceful to humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Shirk is an unpardonable sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">But if one sincerely begs Allah's pardon by pledging not to repeat the same and renews one's faith, Allah, the Gracious, may kindly pardon this sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">What is Nifaq?</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The word Nifaq means vileness, hypocrisy and cheating, having bilateral attitude to something.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">It means to express obedience externally by suppressing the disobedience at heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">In the Islamic terminology, concealing the Kufr and disobedience at heart, uttering the sentences of faith and celebrating different occasions for publicity of faith is called Nifaq.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The person who behaves in such a manner is called a Munafiq.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The great Prophet (Sm), describing the Munafiq, said: There are three traits in a Munafiq :</sent>
				<sent id ="143">he lies when he speaks, he breaks the promise that he makes and he misappropriates what he is to safeguard as a custodian.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Nifaq is the worst sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Disbelief and disobedience remain hidden in the Munafiqs heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">So, they are also Kafirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The Munafiqs are termed as liars in the Holy Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">A complete Sura is revealed describing their misdeeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The Munafiqs are more harmful than the Kafirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">They are the worst enemies of Islam and the Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Describing the severe punishment for them in the life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Allah says: Meaning: The place of the Munafiqs is certainly at the lowest stage of the hell (Jahannam).</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The Munafiqs hold contradictory double-ended principles.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">People with such principles do not have any prestige and honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Nobody trusts them.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The liar and hypocrite Munafiqs have to face miserable consequences.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">We have come to know the importance of the belief in Tauhid and the introduction of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">We have got ideas about Kufr, Shirk and Nifaq and we have known about the ill consequences that accompany them.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">We will therefore lead an ideal life as pure Mumins (really pious people) having faith in Tauhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">What is Risalat?</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The word Risalat means to take the responsibility of delivering a message or a letter or a news or of doing some good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The responsibility of prophethood or the designation of Prophet is called Risalat.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">In Islamic terminology, Risalat means to deliver the holy messages of Almighty Allah to human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">To believe in Risalat is as essential as to believe in Tauhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We did not know about Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Allah, the Merciful, has graciously sent the Nabi-Rasuls (the holy Prophets) to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">They have introduced Allah to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">So, to disbelieve the Risalat is to disbelieve the messages of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Again, to disbelieve the messages of Allah is to disbelieve Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Therefore, to believe in Risalat is an essential part of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">All of our activities have purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Allah, the Beneficient, also does not do anything without any purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He has sent innumerable holy Prophets (Nabi-Rasuls) to this earth, and there is a noble purpose or mission behind this.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The purpose is to lead mankind towards the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">All the prophets beginning from Hazrat Adam (A) to the last prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) had the same mission, i.e. to teach mankind, to guide them towards the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The prophets were very learned, intelligent and wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">They were very honest.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">truthful and dependent on truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">It is not possible for one to direct others to the right path without being honest oneself.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">It was impossible to discharge the great responsibility of Risalat on the part of a liar and a dishonest person.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The prophets were honest, truthful and righteous.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">They were even ready to sacrifice their own lives without any hesitation in their mission of propagating the religion of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">It is not possible for any selfish, greedy and sinful person to make such great sacrifices.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Our beloved Prophet (Sm) was a living symbol of such sacrifices.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The Kafirs tempted him in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Rather he said: I shall not retreat in propagating the truth even if the moon is brought to my one hand and the sun to the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The coming of the holy prophets began from Hazrat Adam (A) and the chain stopped with the last prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Innumerable prophets came in between the two prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">By the chain of the Prophethood or Risalat, we understand the gradual coming of the prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The purpose of the coming of the Prophets was to guide mankind towards the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">In the same way, Tauhid was the basis of this mission of spreading education.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The basic structure of religion is one and the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The religion which Hazrat Adam (A) propagated, was also propagated by Hazrat Nuh (A), Hazrat Ibrahim (A), Hazrat Musa (A), Hazrat I'sa (A), Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="194">When human beings were at the initial stage of knowledge and science, they were given an easy and simple code of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">This code was being spread in proportion to their gradual developments.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The religion which was introduced by Hazrat Adam (A) ended and was given completion by Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="197">We believe in all the Prophets equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">It cannot be that we will believe some of them and disbelieve the others.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">It is declared in the Qur'an Majid.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">We do not make any difference among the Prophets of Allah (Sura Baqarah:285).</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The basic principle of Islam is to believe in all the prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) is the Prophet of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">He is the greatest and the last Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The other prophets came for certain tribes or for certain countries with responsibilities for certain periods.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">But Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was the Prophet for the whole world.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Allah, the Merciful, says: I have sent you as the grace to the whole world (Sura Ambia: 107).</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He also says: Say, O human beings, I have come to you all as the Rasul of Allah (Sura Aaraf: 158).</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The holy books which were revealed to other prophets were also meant for certain tribes.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The last heavenly holy book the Qur'an Majid was revealed to Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="210">It contains the proper solutions to all the problems of mankind, the present and the future generations upto the Qiyamat (the last day).</sent>
				<sent id ="211">No other prophet came after Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Neither anyone will come.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">There is no need for any to come.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Allah, the Merciful, calls him as Khatamun Nabiyyeen, i.e. the last of the prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The meaning of Khatamun Nabuwat and the importance of belief in it The term Khatamun means the end or the last, and Khatamun Nabuwat means the end of the Nabuwat (the prophethood).</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) is the last of all the prophets who came for the salvation of mankind from age to age.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Allah, the Greatest, says: Muhammad (Sm) is not the father of any male amongst you, rather he is Allah's Rasul (the prophet) and the last prophet (Sura Ahzab: .</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Another meaning of the word Khatamun is the seal, conclusion, end etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Sealing of a thing is done only when it is full or complete.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Nothing can be put into it or taken out of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Allah, the Beneficient, bestowed the best ideals, outstanding character and the last heavenly book, the Qur'an Majid, on the great prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="222">It contains the summary of the teachings of all the heavenly holy books.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">It contains the solutions to all the problems of all ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">No other principles and codes of life are required after the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The great Prophet (Sm) said: I am the last Prophet, there is no other prophet after me.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">It is a part of Iman to believe that Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) is the last Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Otherwise, it means to disbelieve Allah and Allah's messages.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">After having so much clear and substantial evidence of Khatamun Nabuwat, if anybody claims to be a prophet after Muhammad (Sm), he will sure be a liar and a hypocrite.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">We have learnt the meaning and importance of Risalat, the attributes of the Prophets, the chain of the prophethood, the character of Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) and the significance and importance of Khatamun Nabuwat.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">We will sincerely believe in these concepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">We will cherish proper respect for the prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">We will mould our lives in the light of the ideals of the great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The simple meaning of the term Kitab is book.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">A book that contains the holy messages of Allah is called Asmanee Kitab (the heavenly book).</sent>
				<sent id ="235">A big book containing Allah's message is called Kitab and a booklet containing the same is called Saheefa.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Ohi or Allah's messages used to be revealed to the prophets, so that they could perform their responsibilities properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The total collection of these holy messages is named as Asmanee Kitab (the heavenly book).</sent>
				<sent id ="238">For a Muslim, it is essential to believe in the holy book of Allah as it is essential to believe in Tauhid and Risalat.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">This is because it is only possible to know the fundamental aspects of Islam like Allah, Rasul, Akhirat etc. through the Kitab.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">It is not possible to believe in Tauhid and Risalat, Allah and Rasul without believing the Asmanee Kitab.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">References of one hundred and four heavenly books can be found.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Of them, four are the main and famous books and the rest one hundred are Saheefas.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Out of one hundred Saheefas, ten were revealed to Hazrat Adam (A), ten to Hazrat Ibra'him (A); thirty to Hazrat Idris (A); and the rest fifty were revealed to Hazrat Shish (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The Qur'an Majid is the last heavenly book revealed to the last prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) from Allah through Jibrail (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The Holy Qur'an was revealed during the long twenty three years of the prophethood of the great Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Only the Holy Qur'an still exists in its total formal shape and will remain so in future.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">This is because the Qur'an Majid has been compiled and preserved scientifically with much importance and care.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Since this is the last and complete heavenly book, Allah has taken the responsibility of preserving it.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Allah says: I have revealed the Holy Qur'an and I am its protector.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The Holy Qur'an is a general, universal and complete code of life which guides mankind to the path of overall welfare both in this mortal world and the world hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">This is the great heavenly holy book to guide the whole mankind of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">It contains the accurate description of the activities and achievements of the prophets in the past and various kinds of information of the nations in the past.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Innumerable historical incidents have been narrated in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">This holy book is the source of a lot of information for the historians and the researchers.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Many scientific truths of the universe and its creation have been unveiled through the Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The serious competitions invulgar literary works which were in vogue during the period of Jahiliyat (darkness) came to an immediate end with the revelation of the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Poets were astonished with the ideas and lucidity of the language of the Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">They were unable to compete with it and were compelled to agree that the Qur'an was not written by any human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Many non-Muslim philosophers also greatly praised the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Innumerable learned and wise persons were deeply charmed at the rhetorical qualities of its language, its similes, its rhythms and artistic diction.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The language of the Qur'an Majid is excellent, incomparable and lively.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Qur'an Majid is the last heavenly book.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Allah, the Merciful, has given completeness to Islam with the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">The Holy Qur'an is the last guide to mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Qur'an Majid (the Holy Qur'an) exists in the same language in which it was revealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">It is completely the message of Allah, nothing is incorporated in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">What we have learnt in this lesson: We have known about the introduction and importance of the heavenly books, introduction of the Holy Qur'an, the necessity of belief in the heavenly books, and the superiority, the features and greatness of the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">We will carefully recite the Qur'an Majid and abide by its teachings.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Akhirat means the life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">The life after the worldly and mortal life is called Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The life of Akhirat begins immediately after ones death.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">That life has its beginning but no end.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">That life is for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Human beings will be rewarded or punished in Akhirat according to their actions in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">This mortal world is the crop-field of Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">This means that if our actions are good in the present world, we will be rewarded in the world hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">For our bad actions, we will be punished.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">To believe in Tauhid and Risalat is a part of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">To believe in Akhirat is also a part of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Introducing the Mumin and Muttaqi (the pious believers) Allah says: They firmly believe in Akhirat as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">The great Prophet (Sm) propagated Tauhid and Akhirat more during his life in Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Those who disbelieved in Akhirat were regarded by all the prophets as Kafirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">It is not possible to believe in Tauhid, Risalat and the holy book (Kitab) without believing in Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">So it is indispensable for one to believe in Akhirat to become a Mumin (believer).</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Belief in Akhirat makes one a responsible and honest worker.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">It makes him/her careful about the activities in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Because he/she believes that he/she will be accountable to Allah in the next world (Akhirat) for all his/her bad actions in this mortal world.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">He keeps himself aloof from evil deeds for fear of punishment in the next world.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The believer in the next world keeps himself/herself away from evil doings because of his/her fear of accountability to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">He/she himself/herself is inspired to do good work with expectation of reward.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Thus belief in Akhirat heightens the character of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">On the other hand, the worldly life is more important to a person who does not believe in Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">He/she has no fear of being accountable to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">So he/she does whatever he/she likes.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The person without fear of Allah in mind resorts to evil work whenever chance arises.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">So the influence of the belief in Akhirat on human life is unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">This belief makes human life responsible, careful, stainless and decent.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The life of Akhirat begins just from death.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Any one who was born is sure to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Allah says: Every living being has to take the taste of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">The virtuous people will have less pangs of death than that of the sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">The period from after death upto the day of resurrection (Qiyamat) is called the life of grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Two angels named Munkar and Nakir will ask three questions in the grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Even those not buried in graves, will not be excused from being questioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Questions will be asked about Rab, Deen (religion) and the Rasul (prophet).</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Those who abide by the orders of Allah and the Prophet (Sm) in this world, will be able to answer these questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Their graves will be the places of happiness like jannat (the paradise).</sent>
				<sent id ="308">But those who do not abide by the orders of Allah and the Prophet (Sm) will not be able to answer them.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Their graves will be places of severe pains and sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">There was a time when there was no universe at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Almighty Allah has created every thing by dint of Allah's own power.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">And there will be a time when human beings will forget Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">There will be none to utter the name of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Allah will then destroy the whole universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">This destruction of the universe is called the Qiyamat.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Hazrat Israfil (A) will blow a horn at the appointed time.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">As a result, everything will be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Even the scientists agree to such consequences of this universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">They maintain that the sun at one stage will become cold, the moon and the sun will become lightless, there will be collision among the planets, satellites and the stars leading to the destruction of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">At the next blow of Hazrat Israfil's (A) horn, human beings will rise up from their respective graves and places.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">This rising up is called Qiyamat.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">This is also called the resurrection.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">After the resurrection, all human beings will assemble in a huge field (maidan) at the call of an angel.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">This is called Hashar or the great assembly.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">All will have to answer for their worldly actions standing before Allah in the field of Hashar.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Those who had faith (Iman) and did good deeds will receive Allah's grace aud live peacefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Those who had no faith and did not perform good deeds will face serious pains and sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">The pious will get the cool and soothing shelter under the Arsh of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">They will not suffer and wait with serene hearts for Allah's orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Human beings and Jinns will be able to see the accounts and records of their worldly deeds on the day of Hashar.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Exact and appropriate trial will begin and Allah will be the Judge.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The holy prophets and the angels will be the witnesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Our virtues and sins will be weighed on the day of Hashar.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">The instrument which will be used for measurement is called Mizan (the scale).</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Those whose scale of virtue will be heavier will be owners of heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">And those whose scale of sin will be heavier will be the inhabitants of Jahannam (hell).</sent>
				<sent id ="337">The term Jannat means the yard or the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">After the short life of the mortal world, the ever-happy and never-ending happy and comfortable place prepared for the believers (the pious) is called the Jannat (heaven).</sent>
				<sent id ="339">All arrangements for comfortable living are there in the Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Every thing will be available there according to one's choice and desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">In this regard, Allah says: You will be given everything whatever you desire in the Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">The Mumin (believers) will meet their virtuous parents, spouses, children and other relatives in Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">There they will gain a new and eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">It is not possible to describe the peace and happiness of heaven completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Hadith-e-Qudsi states that Allah says: Such rewards in heaven are ready for my virtuous believers as no eyes have ever seen, no ears have ever heard and no human hearts could even imagine.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Allah will remain at the centre of all ecstatic pleasures and happiness in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The pious will be able to see Allah and live happily in Allah's association with everlasting ecstatic peace and serenity.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Allah, the Merciful, will be happy with them and they too will be happy by being with Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Who will be the inhabitants of Jannat (the heaven)?</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Allah, the Gracious, says: The person who is afraid of standing before Him for giving accounts of his worldly activities and who is out of the clutches of evil instincts, will go to Jannat (heaven).</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Jannat, the abode of ever lasting peace, is there for the beloved pious servants of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">On the other hand, Jahannam, the place of unending sufferings, is also there for those who do not accept Allah as their Lord, do not express their gratefulness to Allah, do not show loyalty to Allah and rather hostile to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Jahannam is also called Nar (fire) or Dojokh (hell).</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Jahannam is beset with unending sorrows and sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">There is severe punishment in hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">The sinners will repeatedly be burnt in hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Skin and flesh of the body will be burnt and torn.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">New skin and flesh will be given to them again so that the sufferings of burning continues.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The inhabitants of hell will neither die nor be kept alive in hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">That means, they will remain there in a precarious plight.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">The inhabitants of hell will be drowned in hot blood and in a sea of pus.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">A thorny and bad smelling plant named Zaqqum will be their food in Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">They will be given Hamim (very hot water) to drink when they will be extremely thirsty.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">They will also be given dirty and stinky water blended with blood and pus.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">The sinners will be burnt for a never ending duration in hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">The heat of the fire in hell will be extreme.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">The great Prophet (Sm) said: The fire of this world is only one of the seventy one parts of the fire in hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">The sinners, at the time of giving accounts, will humbly request Allah saying: Let us to back to the mortal world again.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">We will come back after performing virtuous activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">But Allah will not listen to them and they will be thrown into hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Nobody will be able to escape punishment of hell at the cost of wealth or anything else.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Sincere compliance with the prescripts of Allah and leading life following the path shown by the Rasul (Sm) are the only ways to escape severe punishment of hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">We have got ideas about Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">We have learnt about the importance and the influence of the belief in Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Moreover, we have come to know about death, grave, Qiyamat, Hashar, Meezan, Jannat and Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">We will surely believe in the life of Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">We will keep ourselves aloof from all sinful activities out of the fear of accountability and punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">We will be careful about our activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">We will act for the satisfaction of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">We will do good in this mortal world so that we can live happily in the world hereafter.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
