<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-islam-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.966</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">361</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5609</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1814</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t117">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Before the birth of the great Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm), the people of this world forgot the laws imposed by Allah and the ideals of the prophets and Rasuls.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They were involved in all kinds of heinous misdeeds and crimes.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Their behaviour was barbarous and against humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">For that reason, the age was known as Ayyame Jahiliyyat (the age of darkness).</sent>
				<sent id ="5">At that time, there was no security of life, property, reputation and privacy of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Peace, discipline and regularity were altogether absent.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Genocide, terrorism, robbery, fighting, burying female child alive, gambling, drinking, taking interest, adultery etc. were the regular activities of the people of those days.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Making hundreds of idols, worshipping them and praying to them for help were their religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In the house of Ka'ba they established 360 idols.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">In a word, they were deeply involved in crimes and unrighteousness.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">In those extremely adverse days of the humanity of the world Almighty Allah sent His favourite friend, the greatest man of all ages, the blessings of the world (Rahmatullil-A'lameen), Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) as a herald of peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">He was sent to show the derailed and absent-minded people the right and just way.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The great Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was born in 570 A.D. in the Quraish tribe in Arabia.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">His father's name was Abdullah and his mother's name was Amina.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">His father had died before he was born.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The child Muhammad was a true embodiment of justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">He sucked milk from one breast of his foster mother Halima and left the other for his foster-brother Abdullah.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">After rearing the child with motherly affection for five years, Halima gave him back to his mother Amina.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">When he was six years old, his mother Amina died.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Our beloved Prophet became orphan losing both his father and mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was being brought up in the house of his grand- father Abdul Muttalib.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">But at the age of eight, he lost his grand-father too.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Then he was being brought up under the affectionate care of his uncle Abu Talib.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Young Muhammad (Sm) was active.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">He did not like to live the life of a parasite of anyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">He helped the insolvent family of Abu Talib in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">For extra earnings he tended sheep.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He was an ideal to the shapherd boys.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He always kept good relationship with the other shepherds.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Once he went to Syria for business with his uncle.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">On the way, they met a clergyman named Bahira.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Bahira mentioned him to be an extraordinary boy and predicted that he would be the Prophet of the last era of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">After returning from Syria the boy Muhammad (Sm) observed the horror of the battle of Fijar.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">That fight took place in a forbidden month.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Not only that the Qais tribe imposed the war on the Quraish illegally.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">So it was called Harbul Fijar or illegal war.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">That war continued for five years.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">In it, Muhammad (Sm) did not take part directly, but he saw its horrible atrocities.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">At this, he got terrible shock.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">He became restless hearing the groan of the wounded.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The man, who would be the pioneer of the peaceful religion Islam, could not tolerate that unrest.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">So, uniting the peace-loving enthusiastic youths, he formed Hilful Fuzul (Shanti Sangha).</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Nursing the sick, preventing the oppressors, helping the oppressed, establishing peace and order and maintaining peace among the tribes were the functions of that peace organization (Shanti Sangha).</sent>
				<sent id ="44">It is really astonishing that the United Nations of the modern world is indebted to that youth organization Hilful Fuzul.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">But the difference is that while the youth organization could sincerely materialize their policies, the U.N.O. of today cannot do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Being moved at his manners and behaviour, Ama'natdari, truthfulness etc. the Arabs called him Al-Amin (trustworthy).</sent>
				<sent id ="47">After he became the Porphet, even those who were his deadly enemies could never say that he was a liar or untrustworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Hearing about the young Prophet Muhammad's (Sm) honesty, truthfulness and decent character, Khadija (R), a wealthy and educated widow of Makka, entrusted him with the resposibility of her own business.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Taking the responsibility of her business, he went to Syria and earned profit beyond her expectation.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">While conducting the business of Khadija, Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) established such an instance of honesty as it was an ideal for the youths of all ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">On that journey, to observe and test the character of the Prophet Muhammad (Sm), Khadija sent with him (the Prophet) her reliable employee Mysara.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Being moved with the report of Mysara about the honesty, reliability and activeness of Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) Khadija (R) proposed to him for marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Taking the consent of his uncle, Abu Talib, he married Khadija.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">At that time he was twenty five years old and Khadija was forty.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">After the marriage Prophet Muhammad (Sm) became the owner of huge property because of the courtesy and cordiality of Khadija (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="56">But not having spent that wealth for his own pomp and comfort, he spent it for the benefit and service of the distressed and sick people.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">When the tribes were about to quarrel among themselves for getting the rare honour of placing the Hajre-Aswad in the house of Ka'ba, it was decided that they would abide by the decision of that person who would enter the house of Ka'ba first in the next morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">In the next morning when the Prophet Muhammad (Sm) entered the house of Ka'ba before others, everybody cried out in one voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Look there, the Al-Amin has come, we are all pleased with him, we also trust him.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Nobody gave any objection in his case.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He settled the quarrel peacefully by his prudence.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Thus they escaped an inevitable bloodshed.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Peace and order is established if neutrality is maintained in settling disputes.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Thus so many inevitable conflicts can be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">One night while Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) was in meditation, Jibrail (A) came to him with Wahy (a message from Allah), and he attained the Nabuwat.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">At that time, he was forty years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Returning home he told Khadija (R): Cover me with clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Cover me with clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He disclosed everything to Khadija (R) and said: I am afraid of losing my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Then Khadija (R) consoled him by saying: No, this cannot be.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">I swear by the name of Allah that He will never put you to disgrace.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Because you behave well with your kith and kin, you manage food, clothing and lodging for the distressed and the weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">You enable the destitute and the people in want to earn their living.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">You serve the guests and help people in the time of natural calamities.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">From this statement of Khadija (R) it is clear that Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) exercised with deep sincerity and devotion the excellent human virtues and engaged himself in the service of humanity before Nabuwat.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Invitation to Iman According to the dictates of Allah, Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) at first began to invite his near relatives to have Iman (faith) in Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">At first Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) secretly invited people to Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">After that when Allah ordered him to invite people openly to accept Islam, he began to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">At that, the idolators began to oppose him.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">They tortured him in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">When they tried to tempt him with leadership and wealth, he said: If you give me the sun in one hand and the moon in another, yet nothing will dissuade me from preaching this truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">From this speech of Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) his devotion to truth, remarkable sacrifice, firmness and restraint became prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">In the tenth year of his Nabuwat, Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) lost his beloved wife and affectionate uncle.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">So he became overwhelmed with grief.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Inspite of his intolerable sorrows and pain and a lot of tortures in the hands of the Kafirs, he continued preaching the religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">He then went to Taif to invite the people there to accept Deen Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The people of that place did not accept Islam, rather they made his holy body bloody by pelting him with stones.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Even in that tense moment Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) did not curse the people of Taif.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">He begged pardon for them to Almighty Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Nowhere such an instance of forgiveness can be found in the history of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">When the Prophet (Sm) was suffering from unbounded sorrows and pains because of unlimited tortures given by the Kafirs of Makka and the ill-treatment of the inhabitants of Taif, Almighty Allah took him close to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">He went to Mi'raj.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">In that Mi'raj he was thankful getting chance to go to the nearness of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Because of the extreme hostility of the Quraish of Makka the act of preaching and the spreading of Islam were hindered.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Then according to the instruction of Allah, the Prophet (Sm) decided to migrate (Hizrat) from Makka to Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">When the Kafirs of Makka saw that the Muslims were leaving Makka one by one making Makka empty of the Muslims, they thought that the Prophet (Sm) would also leave the country as soon as he got a chance.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">So, all the tribes unitedly decided to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">According to the decision, one night they surrounded the house of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="99">They were waiting to kill him very early in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">But due to the miraculous power of Allah, the Prophet (Sm) accompanied by Abu Bakr (R) managed to be fool them and started for Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">To repay the Ama'nats (the property in his custody) he kept Hazrat Ali (R) in his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Entering into the room of the Prophet (Sm) when the Kafirs saw Hazrat Ali (R) lying on the bed, they became very furious.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">But they left ashamed seeing the trustworthiness as a custodian (Ama'natdari) of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="104">They could not think that the enemy, whom they were trying to kill, was so great and generous.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">After going a little distance, the Prophet (Sm) and Abu Bakr Siddiq (R) took shelter in a cave of the mountain Sawor of Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The Kafirs were looking for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">They almost came near the mouth of the cave.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Seeing the movements of the kafirs near the mouth of the cave Abu Bakr (R) became a bit worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The Prophet (Sm) said: Abu Bakr, don't worry.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Allah is with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The Prophet (Sm) had profound confidence and faith in Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">In all activities of life, he relied on the mercy of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Almighty Allah saved him if there was any danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The Prophet (Sm) reached Madina on the 24th September, 622 A.D by migration (Hizrat).</sent>
				<sent id ="115">All sorts of people, both young and old, accepted the Prophet (Sm) with earnest eagerness and love.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Their joy knew no bounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Being happy at the Prophet's coming in their midst, the girls of Madina sang: Behold, the moon is there On the outskirts of the sky, The beam of it has spread over The whole world we ply.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Coming to Madina, Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) sighed the sigh of relief.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">He bound the Muhajirs and the Ansars with the tie of fraternity.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">If the Muslims of the present time come forward to help their distressed Muslim brothers giving up the destructive actions of killing them, the Muslim world would become the abode of peace and prosperity even today.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The first Caliph of the Muslim world Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddiq (R) was born in the Taym sect of the Quraish tribe in 573 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He had deep friendship with the Prophet (sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="123">When the Prophet (sm) invited people to embrace Islam, Hazrat Abu Bakr (R) was the first among the adult male persons who embraced Islam and he accompanied the Prophet (Sm) all the time in weal and woe.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">During the battle of Tabuk he brought all his wealth to the Prophet (sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="125">An instance of dedicating all the property of one for the establishment of truth and uprightness is rare in the history of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Abu Bakr Siddiq (R) had profoundest belief and condidence on the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="127">When the Prophet (Sm) described the incident of the Mi'raj, Abu Bakr (R) believed it without any hesitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">For this reason, the Prophet (Sm) entitled him as Siddiq or faithful.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">After the death of the Prophet (Sm) he became the Caliph of the Muslim world.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Taking the charge of the Caliph he said: So long as I follow the dictates of Allah and His Prophet (Sm), you follow and help me.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">And if I take the wrong path, you at once rectify me.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Those who are weak among you, are strong and powerful to me, until their Haq is realized.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">And those who are strong are weak to me until the recipient's (Haqdar's) due from them is realized.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This speech of Abu Bakr Siddiq (R) is an ideal for the rulers of all ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Even today if the rulers become conscious of their faults and try to create a mentality to rectify themselves, peace and order will surely prevail in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">After the death of the great Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) some issues were created in the Muslim world.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Some people claimed Nabuwat falsely, some refused to pay Zakat and some renounced Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Then Abu Bakr (R) regained peace by subduing all sorts of disorder firmly.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">In the battle of Yamama many Hafiz Sahabis of the Prophet (Sm) lost their lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Then there was a possibility of the Holy Qur'an being endangered and destroyed, and so Abu Bakr (R) compiled the whole Qur'an in one volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">For these kinds of noble acts, he was called the saviour of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Abu Bakr (R) liked to earn his living by hard work.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Even after becoming the Caliph, he ran a business of cloth for some days in order to maintain his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">He took a scanty allowance from the royal treasury.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Inspite of being a Caliph of the Muslim world, the precaution taken by him about enjoying national wealth would become an ideal for the people of all ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Hazrat Umar Farooq (R), the second Caliph of Islam, was learned, modest and honest.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In his childhood, he became famous for his learning and education.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">He engaged himself in business when he grew up.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">He was a famous wrestler, brave warrior, poet and good orator.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">At first he was a deadly enemy of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He went out with an open sword to kill the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="152">On the way, he came to know that his sister Fatima and his brother-in- law Sayeed became Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">At this, he became furious and went to his sister's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">He became astonished seeing their firm belief in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">He was changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He became strongly eager to be a Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">He went straight to the Prophet (Sm) and embraced Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Becoming a Muslim he declared boldly: From now we will perform Salat in front of the house of Ka'ba openly.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">We will do it no more secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) was glad and gave him the title Farooq (one who distinguishes between truth and false).</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Hazrat Umar (R) was a dedicated soul for Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He sacrificed his wealth for the purpose of preaching and spreading Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">In all battles, he fought bravely as a companion of the Prophet (Sm.).</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The judicial policy of Hazrat Umar (R) was impartial and faultless.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">There were no differences between high and low, rich and poor, relatives and non-relatives in the eye of law.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">He gave his own son Abu Shahma severe punishment of drinking wine.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Hazrat Umar (R) liked to take opinions of others in running his administrative activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">So he performed all important activities of the state after consulting with the Sahabis.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">In the character of Hazrat Umar (R) there was a unique combination of delicacy and strictness.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">He was as hard as thunder in respect of laws and as soft as flowers in the distress of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">He roamed about in the villages at dead of night to know the sorrows and sufferings of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Hearing the cries of children in a tent, he himself carried sacks of flour to their tent.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He took his wife Umme Kulsum to the house of a Bedwin when his wife was in trouble of delivery pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">There is no such instance of showing affection to the subjects in the history of the kings and emperors of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The philanthropist Hazrat Umar (R) was a great ideal of equality and humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In Islamic rule, there is a provision of accountability for the rulers like that of other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">As a result, once Hazrat Umar (R) had to answer an ordinary person for his action.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The man complained: Nobody could make a complete shirt with the cloth received from the Baitulmal but a complete shirt of the same cloth is seen in the body of the Caliph.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Where did the Caliph get so much cloth?</sent>
				<sent id ="180">On behalf of the Caliph his son Abdullah replied: I gave my own piece of cloth to my father.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">So his shirt was made so.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">If there is provision for accountability for our rulers, it can be expected that they would also be ideal rulers.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Hazrat Usman (R), the third Caliph of the Muslim world, was born in 576 A.D. in the Umayya family of the Quraish tribe.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">From his childhood, he was very polite, gentle and shy.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">He was also famous for his learning.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He embraced Islam at the age of For the offence of embracing Islam, his uncle Hakam tortured him in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He tolerated all the troubles, and he remained firm in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">When the torture of his relatives reached its extreme point, he went to Abyssinia with the Prophet's (Sm) daughter, his wife Ruqayya.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Hazrat Usman (R) engaged himself for the propagation of Islam being a constant companion of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="190">For this purpose, he started sacrificing his riches and wealth generously.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Once there was a famine in Madina after the Prophet's (Sm) Hijrat.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">At that time he distributed food among the distressed people.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">When the Prophet (sm) expressed his desire to extend the Masjid-e-Nababi as there was scarcity of accomodation, he purchased the land adjacent to the mosque and managed its extension.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">For the battle of Tabuk he alone bore the expenditure of the one-third of 30,000 soldiers and to make the Muslim force strong against the Roman soldiers, he gave one thousand camels.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Hazrat Usman (R) was gifted with enormous wealth by Almighty Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">He realized its haq by spending its generously in the ill days of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">In this respect, he is an ideal for the rich people of all ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The Qur'an was recited in the local dialects in different areas of Arabia.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Afterwards it became a complicated problem for the Muslim Ummah.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">At this there was a possibility of destruction of the unity of the Muslim Ummah.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Realizing the importance of the situation Hazrat Usman (R) took immediate steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He brought the original copy of the Qur'an from Hazrat Hafsa (R), made a lot of copies of it and sent them in different areas of the Muslim empire.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">For this, he was called Jamiul Quran or the compiler of the Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Hazrat Ali (R) was the son of Abu Talib.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">From his childhood he was brought up with Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="206">He had profound faith and confidence in the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="207">When the Prophet (Sm) started propagating Islam, Hazrat Ali (R) was ten years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">In such a tender age he embraced Islam without any hesitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">He loved the Prophet (Sm) whole heartedly and carried out his orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">When the Prophet (Sm) started for Madina (in Hijrat), he kept Hazrat Ali (R) lying on his bed to return the deposited goods to the owners.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Hazrat Ali (R) knew that there was risk in taking such steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Yet he did not hesitate to carry out the instruction of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Carrying out the order of the Prophet (Sm) was more important to Hazrat Ali (R) than the fascination for life.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">In the history of the world, there are rare instances of sacrificing life for the Prophet (Sm) following the path of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Hazrat Ali (R) was a powerful warrior.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">He was gifted with uncommon powers, strength and heroism.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The Kafirs used to be scared hearing his name.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">For his special kind of heroism in the battle of Badar, the Prophet (Sm) gifted him the sword named Zulfiqar.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The sword was the symbol of power and strength of the Muslim Ummah.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">When he conquered the well protected Qamus fort of Khaibar, the Prophet (Sm) gave him the title Asadullah or the Lion of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Hazrat Ali (R) was a devotee of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">He used to continue his practice in acquiring knowledge inspite of various adverse situations.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">He had extraordinary knowledge of Hadith, Tafsir and Arabic grammar.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The Prophet (Sm) said: I am the city of knowledge and Ali is its entrance.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Hazrat Ali (R) led a very simple life.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">He did not like luxury.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">He did not possess anything that could be called wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">He earned his livelihood by hard work.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Sometimes he had to starve.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Yet he did not complain.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Inspite of being the Caliph of the Muslim world, he did his household works himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">His wife Fatima (R), the Prophet's (Sm) daughter, used to grind wheat with her own hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">She did not have any servant or maid-servant to help her.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Hazrat Ali (R) was an ideal for his courage, heroism, pursuit of knowledge and leading a simple life.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">If his ideal is followed, the present restless world can find the path of peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Islam is the religion of knowledge, science and human welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">In Islam, most emphasis is given to exercise knowledge, wisdom and science.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The first message in the Qur'an is: Read (acquire knowledge).</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The Qur'an is called Al-Hakim.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The Qur'an is full of science and wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">It is also said here: Who is gifted with knowledge, is gifted with enormous benefits.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The Prophet (Sm) says: It is Farz for every Muslim to acquire knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">He also says: Acquire knowledge from the cradle to the grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">He again says: If necessary, go to China for this purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The Prophet (Sm) set up an educational institution named Darul Arqam.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">It was established in the house of Hazrat Arqam (R) at the foot of the mountain Safa in Makka with a view to spreading education.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">After his Hijrat, he established a residential educational institution named Suffa on a high place in the north-east side of the Masjid-e-Nababi in Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">After the conquest of Makka, Masjid-e-Nababi became the centre of practising knowledge and science.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The learners gathered there coming from Kufa, Basra, Syria, Egypt, Persia and far-off Rome.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">With a view to spreading education, the Prophet (Sm) determined the ransom of the Kafir prisoners of the war of Badar, which was to teach the illiterate Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">With this end in view, he sent his Sahabis to different parts of the Islamic state.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">After the death of the Prophet (Sm), the Muslims made the practice of knowledge and wisdom more glorified as inspired by his ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">They spread in various parts of the world taking the torch of knowledge in their hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">They set up numerous educational institutions and libraries.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">With the patronization of the Abbaside Caliphs Mansur and Mamun, the fundamental books of history, medicine, astronomy, etc. written in the Greek, Syrian, Sanskrit and Persian languages were translated into Arabic to make easy access to knowledge and technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">For that purpose, Caliph Mamun set up an institution named Baitul Hikmah (science laboratory) in Bagdad.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Because of the all- out efforts of the Muslims, there was tremendous progress in various branches of knowledge and science.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Afterwards, other nations gathered the knowledge acquired by the Muslims and reached the highest point in the domain of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">So it can be said without any hesitation that these great contributions of the Muslims are at the root of the progress of modern science and technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The contributions made by the Muslims to the field of education have become a cause of jealousy and wonder for other nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The Muslims provided ever memorable contributions to the studies like Hadith, Tafsir, Fiqh, History and Philosophy.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Imam Bukhari's contribution to Hadith, Imam Abu Hanifa's contirbution to Fiqh, Ibn Jarir Tabari's contribution to Tafsir and history and Imam Gazzali's contribution to Philosophy are mostly remarkable .</sent>
				<sent id ="263">The contributions of Ibn Jarir Tabari to writing perfect and authentic Tafsir and History are the greatest of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">His Tafsir and the books of History are called the purest Tafsir and History.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">In writing the Tafsir of the Qur'an, he showed his profound knowledge and subtle analysing power.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">He collected lots of Hadith related to Tafsir and on the basis of those, he wrote the book of Tafsir.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">For this reason, this book of Tafsir is very authentic and reliable.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">In this book of Tafsir, he has discussed religious laws and regulations too.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The title of the book of Tafsir is Jamiul Bayan Fee Tafsir Al-Qur'an and the title of the book of history is Tareekhul Umam Wal-Muluk.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Imam Gazzali (R) was the greatest sufi philosopher.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">He gave most importance to religious and moral teachings.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">He expressed through his writing that for the mental and spiritual development of human beings moral teaching is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">He established Sufism in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">He gave philosophical interpretations of the Islamic laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">He wrote many fundamental books on various subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Among them, the most remarkable one is Ihyau Ulum Ad-Deen.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">He has established the supremacy of Islam by perfect authentic and logical descriptions, and for this reason he is regarded as Hujjatul Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The contributions of the Muslims to medical science is certainly memorable.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The Muslims had a great role at the root of the progress of modern medical science.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Among them the names like Abu Bakr Al-Razi, Ibn Sina, Hasan Ibn Haisam, Abul Qasem Jahrabi, Ali Tabari are worth mentioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Abu Bakr Al-Razi was the greatest Muslim medical scientist and surgeon.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">He had been the principal of a government hospital in Jundeshahpur and Bagdad for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">At that time he became so famous that a huge number of patients came to him from West Asia and East Europe.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">During that period Al-Razi was the best among the surgeons.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">He performed operations in a better way than that of the Greeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">He wrote more than two hundred books.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Among them more than one hundred are on medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The book entitled Al Judari Wal Hasbah on pox and measles was so fundamental that even the people of the Christian world could not make any progress on this subject before this.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">He wrote another book entitled Kitabul Mansuri (complete in ten volumes).</sent>
				<sent id ="290">These two books have made Al-Razi immortal in the history of medical science.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Ibn Sina was a world famous physician and philosopher.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">For his outstanding contribution to medicine, he is regarded as the pioneer of the modern medical science and methods of treatment and surgical operation.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Ibn Sina wrote 24 small and 21 voluminous books.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Some people mentioned that the number of his books is more than one hundred.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">His book on medical science entitled Qanun Fit Tibb was a perfect (flawless) creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">There is no other book in medical science seen till today like that one.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Dr. Woslar mentioned this book as the Bible of medical science.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Because of the wonderful combination of all the theories of medical science, this book is considered to be a great compilation of Unani and Jarbi medical science.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Famous vision scientist Hasan Ibn Haisam wrote more than one hundred books on vision science, philosophy, astronomy, medical science, mathematics etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The fundamental book on the vision science called Kitabul Manazir, made him immortal in the history of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">As that was the only book on optics, the researchers on this subject like Roger Becon.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Newlarde, Kepler continued their researches basing on that book.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Ibn Haisam disproved the conception of the Greeks about vision and its refraction and reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">He proved that: Light is reflected in our eyes from the external objects, and not the light coming out of our eyes, makes external objects visible.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">It was he who invented the magnifying glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Though the modern scientists claim kinetics as their monopolistic right, Ibn Haisam discussed it in detail long before them.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">He discussed in his books the weight of the matter that varies due to the variation of weight and pressure of atmosphere, and he also discussed the force of gravitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Though Sir Isaac Newton (1642-1727) is regarded as the inventor of the force of gravitation, there is no doubt that Ibn Haisam was its first inventor.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Ali Tabari wrote a number of books on medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Among those Ferdaus Al-Hikmah Fit-Tibb or the paradise of medical science was the most significant book.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">This book was called the first encyclopedia in Arabic on medical science.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Treatment method and procedure, the process of preparing medicine, the qualities of plants and trees are described in it in detail.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">The Muslims have wonderful contributions to various branches of science.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">The distinguishing role of the Muslims in modern science and technology can never be denied.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">The Muslims made special contribution to a specific branch of science called Alcamy or chemistry.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Muslim scientist Jabir Ibn Haiyan is known as the geatest chemist in the The first inventor of algebra was Al-Kharizmi.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">According to the name of his book on this subject Hisab Al Jabar wal Muqabalah, the Europeans afterwards named this subject algebra.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">In this book of Kharizmi more than eight hundred examples of various types are incorporated.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">He invented six formulas for solving equations.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The book of Kharizmi was translated into Latin in the twelfth century.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">And from that time upto the sixteenth century it was considered the best and authentic book in the European universities.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">He also wrote a famous book on arithmetic which was translated into Latin afterwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The contribution to different mathematical formulas invented by Al-Kharizmi has helped the development of modern mathematics which has helped various developments and inventions in different branches of science.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The Muslim geographers had sufficient contributions to geography.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">It was they who first studied geology from geographical point of view and placed it in a prestigious position.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">They prepared a Surat-al-Ardh or a map of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Al Kharizmi, Al- Masudi, Al-Muqaddasi, Umar-Khayyam and Yaqut-Ibn-Abdullah made remarkable contributions to this subject.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Al- Kharizmi translated the book of the Greek geographer Ptolemy and added a map to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Al Kharizmi accepted Ptolemy's latitude and longitude and added to it some description of the Muslim countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">With the endeavour of Al-Kharizmi a real picture of the world was prepared and that was used as a model for drawing the map of the world afterwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Al-Kharizmi divided the world into seven iqlims or zones.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Following this theory, the geographers divided this earth into seven continents according to the differences of atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Al-Muqaddasi wrote a world-famous book named Ahsan Al-Taqasim Fil-Marifati Aqalim.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">He travelled around various Muslim countries of the world for twenty years.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">In this book, he presented many important geographical facts of those countries and also added a map to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Umar Khayyam invented an almanac called Al Tarikh Jalali after a long research.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">For this, he became famous in the history of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">This is more accurate and better in quality than the calender introduced by Pope Gregori in the sixteenth century.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The book on geography Mujamul Buldan, a book on geography, by Yaqut Ibn Abdullah Al-Hamabi was an authentic one.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">In that book, he described historical, national and natural condition of every place and introduced historical persons and mentioned historical events.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Islam is the religion of human welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Doing well being to human beings is the main principle of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">The Muslims have ideals which is worth following in serving the distressed humanity, helping those who are in want and in all types of beneficial activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Hazrat Umar (R) constructed innumerable mosques, hospitals, schools, roads, culverts and dug canals for irrigation and drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">He sent his wife for nursing a lonely Bedwin woman who was just going to deliver of a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">If we have feeling like those of Hazrat Umar (R) for the poor and the distressed people, the sorrows and sufferings of the poor and distressed people can be mitigated to a great extent even today.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The Muslims were suffering from scarcity of water in Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">There was the only well named Ruma.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">But that was in the possession of a Jew.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">He sold water at a high price.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Hazrat Usman (R) bought that well for thirty five thousand Dirhams and made it waqf for the Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">The contribution of Hajee Muhammad Muhsin in establishing the foundation of Muslim education in Bengal is unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">For the benefit of human beings women also made great contribution side by side with men.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Empress Zubaida, the wife of the Caliph Harun-ur-Rashid, managed the supply of water in the holy city of Makka, Mina and Arafat by diggng a canal.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">She did it to remove the suffering of the Muslims who used to come to Makka for performing Hajj.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">This canal is well-known as Nahar-e-Zubaida.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">The sister of Mamluk Sultan Malik Tahir established a famous female educational institution in Cairo in Hijri The wife of Azd-ud -Daulah set up a big hospital.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Khatun, the daughter of Malik Ashraf, established a big college in Damascus.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Jamrud, the wife of Nasir-ud-Daulah of Hams, too, established a college.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Khanam, the wife of Taimur, established a college after her own name and she bore all the expenses herself.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">These Muslim women are the source of inspiration to the generous women of this age who have contributed to the well-being of humanity and earned international fame.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
