<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-islam-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.788</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">740</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">12202</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2772</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t114">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Islam is a complete and permanent code of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Allah is its formulator and Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) its last propagator.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Allah and Allah's Prophet (Sm) have imposed the rules and regulations of Islam for the welfare of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">These rules and regulations are called Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Declaring the completeness of this Shariat, Allah says: Meaning: Today I have made your religion complete for you and have completed my grace to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">I have selected the Islamic code of life for you (Sura Maida: The rules and regulations of Shariat are indivisible, and the Shariat of Islam is a complete whole.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">It is prohibited to accept some parts of it and to reject some other parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">It is compulsory to have belief (Iman) in every command of Shariat and to comply wholly with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">To oppose or to violate any rule of Shariat is at the same time to face two dangerous consequences.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">One is to be faced here and the other hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Allah Ta'la says in this regard: Then, do you believe some parts of the holy book (Kitab) and reject the other parts?</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Hence, those of you who do the same will face the consequences of shame and disgrace in the worldly life, and on the day of judgement, they will be thrown towards severest punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">(Sura Baqara: 85) It is clear from the above Ayat (part of Sura) that the punishment for acceptance of some parts of Shariat and the rejection of some others is severe both in this world and in the Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The first and the main source of Shariat is the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">It is a clear document of Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The main structure of Shariat is based on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Sunnah holds the second place as the source of Shariat because the Holy Qur'an is the basis and Sunnah its explanations.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">There are brief descriptions of all subjects in the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">And the Hadith consists of the analysis of those subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Allah says about the Holy Qur'an: Meaning: I have revealed the Kitab to you, which is the vivid interpretations of all subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Sunnah is the second source of Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">It was the responsibility of the great Prophet (Sm) to give explanations of all the brief matters given in the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Meaning: And I have revealed the Holy Qur'an to you so that you can explain these issues to the people on whom these are bestowed and so that they may think about them.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The explanations of the great Prophet (Sm) are called the Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Allah, the Holiest, has mentioned clearly in the following Ayat (the part of Sura) that the Hadith of the Prophet (Sm) is the source of Shariat: Meaning: Try to hold firmly onto what the Prophet (Sm) has given you and discard those which he has forbidden.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The third source of Shariat is Ijma or the consensus of the Ummat (followers).</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Allah has given such status to the Ummat of Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) that it is a great sin to oppose the consensus of the Ummat.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Allah, the Merciful says in this regard: Anybody who opposes the Prophet and speaks against the path followed by the pious people even after the right direction is shown to him, shall be directed to the same direction which he has followed and thrown into jahannam (hell).</sent>
				<sent id ="29">And that is the worst destination.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Stressing the Ijma of his Ummat Allah's prophet (Sm) said: The things which the Muslims accept as good are also good to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The fourth source of Shariat is Qiyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">New issues will arise in the human society everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">If the solutions to these issues are found neither in the Holy Qur'an nor in Sunnah nor in Ijma, these are to be solved in the light of Qiyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The Hadith related by Hazrat Muaz Ibn Jabal (R) is noteworthy in this regard.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Allah's Prophet (Sm) asked: What will you do if you don't find the solution to any issue in Allah's Kitab?</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Then I will follow the Sunnah of the Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">replied Hazrat Muaz (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Then the Prophet (Sm) again asked: If you still don't find it even in that?</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Hazrat Muaz (R) replied: Then I will apply my own conscience and intelligence to take decisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Then Allah's Prophet (Sm) said: All praises be to Allah who has made the messenger of Allah's Prophet(Sm) reply in such a way as Allah's Prophet (Sm) has been pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The Holy Qur'an contains the messages of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">It is the last and the best of all the heavenly books which have been revealed by Allah for the correction of all mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">It is revealed in the Arabic language because Arabic was the language of the great Prophet (Sm) and his nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Allah says in this regard: I have sent every prophet as the speaker of the language of his own nation, so that he can clearly interpret to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The language of the Qur'an is easy and simple.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">There is neither any complexity nor any obscurity in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Allah says in this regard: I have surely made the Holy Qur'an simple in your language, so that they can receive your advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Allah further says: I have surely revealed the Holy Qur'an in the Arabic language, so that you may understand it easily The meaning of Qur'an is 'read'.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">It is called the Qur'an because it is the most widely read religious book in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">According to another opinion, the word Qur'an originates from the verb root 'Qaru-n' which means 'to assemble' or 'to collect'.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The Holy Qur'an is the summary of all the previous heavenly books and all the knowledge and science of the world has been assimilated in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">That is why, it is called the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">And for this reason, it is also called Al-Hakim, the storehouse of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The Holy Qur'an has a lot of titles.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The Holy Qur'an was revealed to the great Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="56">It was written in Lauhe-Mahfuz (a well protected plate).</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Allah says in the Holy Qur'an in this regard: Rather it is the Holy Qur'an which has been preserved in Lauhe Mahfuz (a well-protected place).</sent>
				<sent id ="58">On the night of Qadr, the entire Qur'an was revealed at a time from 'Lauhe Mahfuz in a place named Baitul Izzah, at the nearest sky from the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Afterwards, the initial five Ayats (verses) of Sura Alaq were revealed to the great Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) through the angel, Jibrail (A) in the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">He was then in meditation in the cave of Hera and so the revelation of the Qur'an remained postponed for many days.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Then the Holy Qur'an started to be revealed in parts sometimes five Ayats, sometimes ten Ayats, sometimes part of one Ayat and sometimes one complete Sura were revealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Thus the revelation of the Holy Qur'an took place throughout the twenty three years of the prophethood of the great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The revelation took place in the context of different circumstances, necessities and occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In this regard, Allah says in the Holy Qur'an: Meaning: And I have revealed this Holy Qur'an in small parts, so that you can read them out to the people gradually and I have revealed it appropriately.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">It is further said in the Holy Qur'an: The Kafirs (disbelievers) say, why wasn't the entire Qur'an revealed to this man at a time?</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Yes, this is done so, because this may be well imprinted in your head and heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">And this is why I've arranged it well in separate parts and in a special manner Very few of the Arabs knew how to read and write.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">There was also scarcity of writing materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">But they had good memory.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Nabi Karim (Sm) used to memorize the parts of the Holy Qur'an immediately after these were revealed to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">He even used to try to memorize them by moving his two lips with Jibrail (A) at the time of the revelation.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In this regard, Allah says: You do not recite the revelation rapidly in order to memorize it soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The matter of its preservation and reading is My responsibility.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">(Sura Qiama: 15,16) He used to recite the Holy Qur'an night and day.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He also used to direct the Sahabis (his followers) to memorize the Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They used to memorize the Holy Qur'an by themselves and made their family members memorize the same with care.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The humming sound of the recitation could be heard from their houses at dead of night.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Nabi Karim (Sm) used to go near the house of the Sahabis in the dark of night and listen to their recitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He used to send the Sahabis to the farthest areas with a view to teaching the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">He sent Musa'b Ibn Umar (R) and Abdullah Ibn Umme Maktum (R) to Madinah to teach the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Apart from memorizing the Holy Qur'an, it was systematically written during the period of Prophet Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="82">A team of distinguished followers were engaged as the writers of the revelation.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Of them, Zaid Ibn Sabit (R), Ubai Ibn Ka'ab (R), Muaz Ibn Jabal (R), Muabia (R), Abu Bakr (R), Umar Farooq (R), Usman (R) and Ali (R) were noteworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Writing materials were scarce during that period.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Printing machine was not invented then.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">So, the Sahabis preserved the Ayats of the Holy Qur'an by writing them on the branches of date trees, pieces of stones, skins, tree-leaves, papers or pieces of clothes, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The entire Qur'an was written during the life time of the Prophet (Sm) under his direct supervision.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">But it was all scattered then.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">During the period of the first Caliph Hazrat Abu Bakr (R) on the 12th Hijri, a bloody Jiha'd took place in a place named Yamama.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Seventy Hafiz-e-Qur'an were martyred in this Jiha'd.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Hazrat Umar (R) worried at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">He said to Caliph Abu Bakr (R): There is a risk of losing the major part of the Holy Qur'an if the Hafiz-e-Qur'an are martyred in different Jiha'ds in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">So, please arrange for the compilation of the Qur'an Majid.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In reply, Abu Bakr (R) asked Hazrat Umar (R): Umar how can you do such work that the holy Prophet (Sm) of Allah did not do?</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Then Umar (R) replied: By Allah, there is good in it At last, Abu Bakr (R) gave this great responsibility to Zaid Ibn Sabit (R), the writer of the Ohee (message revelation).</sent>
				<sent id ="96">He wrote the Holy Qur'an on paper in the form of a book from different manuscripts written during the life of time of the holy Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="97">It took about one year.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">This book was kept under the supervision of Abu Bakr (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="99">After his death the book was in the care of Hazrat Umar (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="100">After his Shahadat (martyrdom), according to his will, the copy of the Qur'an was kept with his daughter Bibi Hafsa (R), the wife of the holy Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The Islamic empire was largely extended during the period of the third Caliph Hazrat Usman (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Different nations and speakers of different languages embraced Islam in groups because of the spread of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Many of them could not pronounce certain words of the Qur'an in accordance with the reading method of the Quraish.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Moreover, the followers of one reading method regarded the followers of other reading methods as wrong readers.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Especially Huzaifa (R), a distinguished follower (Sahabi), saw the difference in the reading style of the Holy Qur'an among the Muslims who informed the third Caliph Hazrat Usman (R) of the matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The Caliph immediately discussed the matter with the leading Sahabis and formed a board of four distinguished Sahabis to prepare a documentary edition of the Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">These four Sahabis were Zaid-Ibn-Sabit (R), Abdullah Ibn Zubair (R), Sayeed Ibn Aas (R) and Abdur Rahman -Ibn-Haris (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="108">This initiative of Hazrat Usman (R) was taken in Hijri This board prepared seven true copies of the Qur'an from the copy preserved with Bibi Hafsa (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Each of the copiers was a Hafiz-e-Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">While preparing the copies, they used to listen to the recitation of different Hafizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">For this reason, the entire Muslim world accepted these copies as unfaulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The original copy was returned to Hazrat Hafsa (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="113">One of the prepared copies was preserved in the centre with the Caliph and the rest of the copies were sent to different administrative centres, so that there could be no anomaly in the recitation of the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Afterwards, the copies preserved in the scattered way were collected from all and destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Thus, the Holy Qur'an was collected under the direct supervision of the third Caliph of Islam Hazrat Usman (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="116">For this noble deed of the Caliph, he is called Jamiul Quran or the compiler of the Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">This compilation of the Qur'an did not bring any change in the order (serial) of Ayats and Suras done by the great Prophet (Sm) as per the instruction of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">That is because maintaining the order (serial) of the Ayats is Wajib.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">When Hazrat Jibrail (A) brought any part of the Qur'an to the Prophet (Sm), he told the Prophet (Sm) in which place of a Sura the part should be incorporated.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Then the Prophet (Sm) called upon and directed the Sahabis (the followers) who used to write the messages to incorporate the revealed part in the proper place of the Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In the same way, the order (serial) of the Suras were also decided by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">At present the Suras of the Holy Qur'an are arranged in the same order as they are preserved in Lauhe Mahfuz.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">There were no Harkats or symbols of voice in the Holy Quran at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">As a result, the non-Arabian Muslims later faced difficulties in reciting the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Then Hajjaj-Ibn-Yousuf, the Iraqi ruler of the Umayyads arranged for the addition of Harkats to the Quran and solved this problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The Holy Qur'an is divided into thirty paras (parts).</sent>
				<sent id ="127">There are 114 Suras and 6236 Ayats in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">But in another view, there are 6666 Ayats in the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">In the context of their revelation, these Suras were divided into two parts: Makki and Madani.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The famous opinion about the fixation of Makki and Madani Sura is as follows:</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The Suras which were revealed before the Hijrat are called the Makki Suras and the Suras which were revealed after the Hijrat are called the Madani Suras.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">In this regard, Yahya-Ibn-Salam said: The Suras which were revealed during the Hijrat of the great Prophet (Sm) till the time of his arrival at Madina are also called the Makki Suras.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The Suras which were revealed after his arrival at Madina and during the period of his stay outside Madina are called the Madani Suras.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The call to Tauhid, iba'dat and Risalat in the Makki Suras is performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The resurrection after death, accounts of the deeds of the worldly life, the danger of Qiamat, the serene peace in Jannat and the descriptions of the severe punishment in Jahannam (hell) have been emphasized in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">They contain the general principles of Shariat and the descriptions of good character and its characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">They narrate the stories of bloody killings of the Mushriks, misappropriation of wealth of the orphans, burial of the alive female children and their various bad practices and ill behaviours.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">They narrate the facts of the previous prophets and the stories of the miserable consequences of their disobedient Ummat.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The Makki Suras are short but grave and significant.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Their powerful words vibrates in the ear and throbs in the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">They emphasize the importance of the contents which is presented through the swearing of the famous objects.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Solutions to different problems of iba'dat, social behaviours, customs, mutual transactions, halal and haram, the law of inheritence, rewards of Jiha'd (religious war), trade and commerce, foreign policy, judicial system, criminal procedure code, personal, familial, socio-economic, political and community life are mentioned in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The Madani Suras especially deal with inviting the Ahle-Kitab, i.e. the Jews and the Christians, to embrace Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Description of the disinterest of the Ahle-Kitab towards truth and their distortion of the Kitabs are given in these Suras.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The hypocrisy of the Munafiqs (hypocrites) and their conspiracy against Islam have been unveiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The Madani Ayats and Suras are lengthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The objectives and aims of Shariat have been clearly focused in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">To recite the Holy Qur'an by seeing is called Tilawat-e-Nazira.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">It is better and more rewarding to recite by seeing.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">To learn how to recite the Holy Qur'an, one is required to read at first by seeing it and by correctly pronouncing every letter.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Allah's grace (Rahmat) comes down to the house where the Holy Qur'an is recited.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The honour and dignity of the persons who face hindrance and difficulty in reciting the Holy Qur'an, will be blessed and rewarded doubly by Allah, the Merciful, as our beloved Prophet (Sm) has mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">According to the great Prophet (Sm), the heart (of a person) is just like an empty room, in which there is not even a single Ayat of the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Therefore, we will always see and recite the Holy Qur'an correctly.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Importance and good consequences (Fazilat) of reciting the Holy Qur'an The word Tilawat means to read, to follow, to realize, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Allah has revealed the Holy Qur'an to guide mankind to the right and honest path.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The Qur'an has presented to human beings a clear description of truth and falsehood, good and bad, heaven and hell and the life here and hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">It is a means of salvation for mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It is a preserver and bearer of the welfare of the humanity of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It was the prime responsibility during the prophethood of the great Prophet (Sm) to make others listen to the recitation of the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The Qur'an is the store-house of all kinds of knowledge and science.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">There is no subject on which information has not been presented in the Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">A French scholar has rightly remarked: The Holy Qur'an is an institution of science for the scientists, a dictionary for the linguists, a book of grammar for the grammarians and an encyclopedia of laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The meaning of the Holy Qur'an has to be understood for clear realization of these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">One has to think and carry out research on the subjects presented here.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">And one has to devote oneself to reading it with an open heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">About those who do not recite the Holy Qur'an accordingly, Allah says: Don't they think deeply about the Holy Qur'an?</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Or are their hearts locked?</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The real objectives of the revelation of the Holy Qur'an will only be achieved when we recite it with understanding.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Allah says in this regard: This is a Kitab (holy book) which is full of welfare and which I have revealed to you, so that human beings can realise its Ayats and the wise men take advice (Sura Saad: 29) To recite the Holy Qur'an with 'Tajbeed' is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">To recite every letter of the Holy Qur'an according to its pronunciation with sifat (the special position of pronunciation of letters) is called Tajbeed.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It is a sin to recite the Holy Qur'an with errors.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Rasulullah (Sm) has directed us to recite the Holy Qur'an with tajbeed and intonation.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He says: The person who does not recite the Holy Qur'an with melodious voice is not established on my principles (Abu Dawood).</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Allah Rabbul A'lameen (the Lord of the Universe) listens to the recitation of a melodious voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The Fazilat (good effects) of reciting the Holy Qur'an is enormous.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Nabi Karim (Sm) says in this regard: The person who recites a single letter of the Kitab of Allah, gets Allah's grace and the quantity of this grace is ten times greater.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">(Tirmizi) He further said: The house wherein the Qur'an is recited looks as bright to the dwellers of the heaven as the stars look to the inhabitants of the earth (Baihaqi).</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He further said: Make your own houses bright with salat and recitation of the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The recitation of the Holy Qur'an is the best of all kinds of iba'dat (prayer).</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Allah's Prophet (Sm) says in this regard: For my Ummat the most rewardable iba'dat is the recitation of the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The success of a nation depends on the recitation of the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">This success will come when we recite the Qur'an with understanding and implement the instructions of it in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The parents of those who will work according to the instructions of the Holy Qur'an after studying it, will wear such a crown on the day of judgement (Qiamat) that its light will even be brighter than the sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">And that person's position will be heightened so much that we cannot even imagine it now.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">We will always recite the Holy Qur'an with care, try to understand it and act accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Shan means position, reason, incident, context etc. and Nuzul means revelation.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The Ayats and Suras of the Holy Qur'an were revealed in the context of certain incidents and situations.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">An incident or situation centring which an Ayat or a Sura was revealed is called the Shane-Nuzul of that Ayat or Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">It is described in the Hadith that the holy Prophet (Sm) once could not perform Salatut Tahajjud for three consecutive nights as he was sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Jibrail (A) also did not come to him with Ohee (message) during that period.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Then the Mushriks started saying: Allah has deserted Muhammad (Sm) and is displeased with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Also Umme Jamil, the wife of Abu Lahab, came and said to Nabi Karim (Sm), O Muhammad, I think your devil has deserted you.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">I have not seen him coming to you for two or three nights.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Then Allah Ta'ala revealed this Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">It is described in the Hadith that the holy Prophet (Sm) once could not perform Salatut Tahajjud for three consecutive nights as he was sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Jibrail (A) also did not come to him with Ohee (message) during that period.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Then the Mushriks started saying: Allah has deserted Muhammad (Sm) and is displeased with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Also Umme Jamil, the wife of Abu Lahab, came and said to Nabi Karim (Sm), O Muhammad, I think your devil has deserted you.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">I have not seen him coming to you for two or three nights.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Then Allah Ta'ala revealed this Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">It is described in the Hadith that the holy Prophet (Sm) once could not perform Salatut Tahajjud for three consecutive nights as he was sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Jibrail (A) also did not come to him with Ohee (message) during that period.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Then the Mushriks started saying: Allah has deserted Muhammad (Sm) and is displeased with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Also Umme Jamil, the wife of Abu Lahab, came and said to Nabi Karim (Sm), O Muhammad, I think your devil has deserted you.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">I have not seen him coming to you for two or three nights.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Then Allah Ta'ala revealed this Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">In the name of Allah, the most Beneficient, most Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">By the forenoon of the of .</sent>
				<sent id ="210">And the night when it is quiet.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Your Protector has not deserted you nor is He displeased with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">And surely the letter period is better for you than the former.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">And soon your protector will grace you and you will be pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Didn't He (Allah) find you an orphan and then give you another?</sent>
				<sent id ="215">And He (Allah) found you uninformed about the path, so He showed the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">And He (Allah) found you helpless, so, He (Allah) made you free from wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">So, do not be rude to the orphans.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">And do not threat anybody who asks.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">And show your gratitude to your Creator by expressing His (Allah's) Niamats.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Allah, the Merciful, used to shower Allah's grace ceaselessly on the prophets (Nabi-Rasuls) since their birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Our Prophet Nabi Karim (Sm) was an orphan, and Allah arranged everything for rearing him up well.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">He was in search of truth, and Allah showed him the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">He was poor, and Allah made him well-to-do.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">In this sura, after mentioning all the grace of Allah, Allah ordered him not to be rude to the orphans and not to threaten the beggars but to express the Niamat (grace) of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">It is described in the Hadith that the holy Prophet (Sm) once could not perform Salatut Tahajjud for three consecutive nights as he was sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Jibrail (A) also did not come to him with Ohee (message) during that period.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Then the Mushriks started saying: Allah has deserted Muhammad (Sm) and is displeased with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Also Umme Jamil, the wife of Abu Lahab, came and said to Nabi Karim (Sm), O Muhammad, I think your devil has deserted you.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">I have not seen him coming to you for two or three nights.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Then Allah Ta'ala revealed this Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Allah never deserts His beloved people.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">However grave their danger may be, he will put an end to it .</sent>
				<sent id ="233">When Allah bestows wealth, prestige and honour on any person, he/she has to come forward in relieving the pains of the poor and the distressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Instead of rebuking the beggars, we have to help them as much as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">This is because Allah has earmarked the share of the beggars and the distressed in the wealth of the rich.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The distance between the wealthy and the poor can be reduced by Zakat, Sadqa, gifts, alms, etc. Wealth is the Niamat (gift) of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Whenever Allah pleases anybody with gifts, he has to acknowledge his gratitude without being miserly.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Knowledge and science is a great gift of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The duty of those who have made themselves successful by acquiring knowledge and also who have been able to enlighten themselves with the light of education, is to release others from the curse of ignorance.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Illiteracy and ignorance is the curse of a nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">It is the prime duty of every literate and wise person in society to come forward to eradicate this ignorance and illiteracy from the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The people of Makka used to respect Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) before he gained Nubuyat (prophethood).</sent>
				<sent id ="243">They used to call him Al-Amin (the faithful) and listen to him with respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">But after he started preaching Islam, the people of Makka began to tease and laugh at him.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The Kafirs and Mushriks (the disbelievers) of Makka turned into his enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">They continued to tease him thinking him to be helpless and troubled him and his Sahabis (followers) in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The great Prophet (Sm) became worried and pessimistic because of their oppression and torture.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Under these circumstances, Allah revealed this Sura to console Allah's Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="249">In the name of Allah, the most Beneficient, most Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Hazrat, I expanded your chest your betterment.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">And removed your burden from you.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Which was very painful for you?</sent>
				<sent id ="253">And I've given high esteem to your fame.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Certainly there is ease with pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Of course, ease is with pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">So, whenever you are free devote yourself to iba'dat, And pay your attention to your Creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The great Prophet (Sm) even before attaining the Prophethood used to think that the religions of the Kafirs, Mushriks, Christians and Jews were wrong and false.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">But he himself also did not know the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">For this reason, he was always worried and restless.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Allah relieved him of this restlessness by bestowing upon him Prophethood and broadened his heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Allah gave him wonderful courage, firm attitude, broadness of heart and knowledge and wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The injustice and oppression, the activities devoid of principles and the examples of being characterless in the Arabian society made him sad with anxiety.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">But he did not know the right way to eradicate these evils from the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">In fact, this anxiety was an intolerable burden on his heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">But Allah made him the prophet and showed him the bright way to free society from oppressions and evil acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The Prophet (Sm) with a torch of rectification in his hand, gave a clarion call to the Arab nations, who were in deep darkness of illiteracy, to the path of the light of hedayet.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">They did not respond to his call easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">They all, excepting a few followers, began to oppose him.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">But the light of Islam reached all around within a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">There was no tribe in Arabia where the holy name of the Prophet (Sm) did not reach.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Then the whole of Arabia with all their might became his enemy and opposed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">The holy Prophet (Sm) and his followers were fed up with their continuous suppression and oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Then consoling the holy Prophet (Sm) Allah saidThis hard and difficult situation will not last long, rather it will come to an end very soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Giving him a special instruction, Allah said that when he would retire from the responsibilities of spreading Islam, training up his followers, bearing the responsibilities of the family etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">he should engage himself in the devotion of Allah and in spiritual perseverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Allah opens up one's heart to receive if one tries sincerely and devotedly to realize truth and justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The door of knowledge is opened up to one when one tries rightly to acquire education and knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The social indiscipline, frustration, anarchy, sin and viciousness make the conscious people sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">They may have to face adverse situation in eradicating these unwanted things.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">But they should not be disheartened because injustice does not last long.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Truth will undoubtedly prevail.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Every moment of one's life is extremely valuable and the responsibilities and duties of this world are also endless.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">To carry out these responsibilities properly is equivalent to worshipping Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">The essential duty of a believer is to offer iba'dat to Allah and devote himself/herself to Allah's remembrance after the worldly problems and business are over.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">This brings mental peace and develops the soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">In this Sura, it has been pledged in the names of two very useful trees and fruits and two holy places.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">These two trees are Anjir and Zaitun.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The fruits of Anjir trees are very delicious.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">And the fruits of Zaitun are propitious and produce oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">The Tur (a mountain) is the place of conversation between Hazrat Musa (A) and Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">And Baladul Amin is holy Makka, the birth place of Rasulullah (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="292">And Al-Masjidul Haram is situated here where all kinds of bloodshed are prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">In this sura, the names of these glorious places are mentioned and a call is given to mankind to accept Iman (faith) and perform good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Human beings are very nicely shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">So, their activities should be very good too.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">If they are engaged in bad activities, their punishment will be very serious.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">And those who are used to performing good deeds, will receive unlimited rewards.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">This sura was revealed in this context.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">In the name of Allah, the most Beneficient, Most Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Pledging in the names of Anjir and Zaitun.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Again pledging in the name of Senai mountain And pledge in the name of this safe city (Makka).</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Certainly, I have created man in the best shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Then I have brought him down to the lowest level.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">But, for people except those, who have faith (Iman) and done good deeds great rewards are waiting.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Oh, the ever-great prophet, who can make you a liar about this day of results (Qiamat)?</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Isn't Allah the best of all the Judges?</sent>
				<sent id ="307">In this Sura it is pledged in the names of Anjir, Tur-e-Senai (mountain of Senai) and the secured city of Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">By Teen and Zaitun, Syria and Palestine were referred to as these two countries produce these two fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Innumerable prophets from Hazrat Ibra'him (A) upto Hazrat Isa (A) came to these two regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Hazrat Musa (A) was given the prophethood in the Tur hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">And the very foundation of the city of Makka was laid down by Hazrat Ibra'him (A) and Ismail (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Allah Ta'ala has created human beings shapely.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">The human shape is really incomparable.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Allah has given knowledge to human beings after creating them shapely.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">By dint of this knowledge, man has been considered the best of all creations and brought under control even those stronger than himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">When a human being uses his/her own body and strength in unjust and sinful activities, he /she gradually goes down into such a bottomless level as there is no level lower than this.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Such incidents are widely seen in human society.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Greed, lust, desire, jealousy, malice and anger lower human beings to the lowest level.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">They even lose their sense of distinguishing what is good or what is bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">They then become worse than four-footed animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">A four-footed animal attacks its enemy with its nails, claws and teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">But, to avenge, human beings commit murder and other heinous crimes destroying human habitations within the shortest possible time by using deadly weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Such cruelty and barbarous acts of human beings can not be compared even with the cruelty of ferocious animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">However, those who are Mumins and virtuous do not reach upto this level.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">They protect their honour given by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Their character is well developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">They are respectful to one another and kind hearted.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">The results and consequences of the activities of these two classes of human beings are not the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Punishment for those sinning at the lowest level and reward for those having good character are inevitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Appropriate punishments and just rewards cannot be given in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Therefore, there is no reason and way to disbelieve in Akhirat, the life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Allah, the greatest of all the judges, will arrange severe punishment for the offenders and unimaginable reward for the virtuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">No conscious person can make the great Prophet (Sm) a liar by disregarding the trial of Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">This is because Allah, the Gracious, is the greatest of all the judges.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">The main purpose of the revelation of this sura is to highlight the glory, importance and dignity of the Qur'an Majid.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">It is described in the Riwayat of Ibn-Hatim regarding the background of this sura: One day Rasulullah (Sm) discussed the activities of great men of the Bani Israil who had passed eighty years in the iba'dat of Allah (worshipping Allah).</sent>
				<sent id ="337">They did not disobey Allah even for a single moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">These four great men were Hazrat Ayyub (A) Zakariyya (A), Hizqeel (A) and Eusha-Ibn-Noon (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Hearing this, the Sahabis (followers) were astonished because the previous prophets and their ummats lived long and got the opportunity of offering iba'dat to Allah for many years.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">But the life of the holy Prophet (Sm) as well as his ummats was much shorter and so it was not possible for them to be equal to their predecessors in worshipping Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">At the distress of the Sahabis, Hazrat Jibrail (A) came to the great Prophet (Sm) instantly and said: Your Ummats have been astonished to hear about the iba'dat of those four people.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Allah has given you something better than this.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Then he recited Sura Qadr to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">In the name of Allah the most Beneficent, the most Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">I have certainly revealed this (the Qur'an), on the night of majesty (Qadr).</sent>
				<sent id ="346">And to you know how this night of Qadr is?</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The night of Qadr is better than a thousand months.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">On this night the angels and the Ruh (the souls) come down with Allah's permission, carrying all His instructions.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">It continues till sunrise.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Mentioning the fact of the revelation of the Qur'an Majid and the dignity of the night in which it was revealed, Allah, the ever gracious, says that the Qur'an was revealed on the night of Qadr.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">And the dignity of Sahabe Qadr is greater than that of one thousand months.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Jibrail (A) comes down to earth along with other angels carrying Allah's orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Complete peace prevails on this night till sunrise.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">The Holy Qur'an is Allah's message, Allah revealed it on Shabe Qadr and the meaning of its revelation on this night is that the entire Qur'an was revealed on this night at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">It is known from the Hadith that the entire Qur'an was first revealed in the first sky named Baitul-Izzah.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Then by the order of Allah it was revealed to Nabi Karim (Sm) gradually and according to neccessity in twenty- three years.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Lailatul Qadr, i.e. the night of the revelation of the Quran is a glorious and significant night.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Decisions on all issues are given very scientifically on this very night.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">There is a hint in the Hadith as to which night is Shabe Qadr.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The nights of the uneven dates of the last ten days of the Ramadan is Shabe Qadr.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">And according to many scholars, this night is the 27th night of the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The ibadat (Worshipping of Allah) on Lailatul Qadr (the night of Qadr) is better than the iba'dat for one thousand months.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">It is mentioned in the Hadith Sharif (the holy Hadith) that all the past sins of a person who remains standing on this night for the iba'dat with faith and hope for having good results from Allah will be pardoned.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">The Lailatul Qadr has acquired much dignity only because the Holy Quran was revealed on this night.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">It actually shows the basic glory and dignity belonging to the Qur'an Majid.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Therefore, the person, the society and the nation that will uphold the Qur'an Majid within themselves and will abide by its instructions will possess special dignity and honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">The terrible earthquake which will take place before the Qiamat (the doomsday) and the accounts of worldly activities in the field of Hashar (Judgement) have been described in this sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">There will be repeated earth quakes before the destruction of the earth and huge pieces of gold, silver and minerals within the earth will come out.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Seeing this situation, all human beings will be terrified and will ask one another as to what had happened to the earth that all its minerals are coming out today.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">The sura was revealed inspiring human beings to live lives of justice and truth giving up greed and lust for wealth and riches of this temporal world.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">In the name of Allah, the most Beneficent, the most Merciful When the earth will be shaken with its shaking And the earth will bring forth all its internal burdens.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">And the human beings will start saying, What has happened to this earth?</sent>
				<sent id ="373">On that day, the earth will narrate its own story This is because your Protector will order it On that day human beings will come out in different groups, because they will be shown their own deeds The person who will do the slightest good thing will also see it himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">And the person who will do the slightest bad thing will also see it himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">The world is short-lived.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">The life time of human beings here is also short.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">But this temporal worldly life is very precious.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">All the big and small activities of life are being recorded.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">After the destruction of this world, Hazrat Israfil (A) will once again blow the horn.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Then all the human beings will arise from their respective graves and assemble in the field of judgement (Maidan of Hashar).</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Then everybody will come to see all his/her respective small and big activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Deeds of life, conversations, movements all should be guided by Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Physical strength, manpower, financial strength - nothing will come to any use in Akhirat (the life hereafter).</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Wealth and riches - the main root of all sins - will be useless in the next world (Akhirat).</sent>
				<sent id ="385">In the field of judgement every person will observe the accounts of his/her own activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Good activities, although very small, should not be neglected and avoided thinking them to be tiny.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">This is because innumerable good activities of this kind taken together will appear to be very big good work to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">We should not involve ourselves in any sinful activity thinking it to be insignificant because even small sinful activities lead human beings to greater sinful activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">In this connection, the holy Prophet (Sm) told Hazrat Aisha (R), O Aisha, try to keep away from those sins which are regarded as small, because Allah will take accounts of these also.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Hadith means speeches or, in the language of shariat, the messages, activities and the silent agreements of the great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="391">In the same way, the speeches, activities and the silent agreements of the Sahabis (the followers) and the Tabiins are called Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Hadith is the second source of Islamic Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Each and every message uttered by the holy Prophet (Sm) is called Qawli Hadith or message-based Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">The activities of the great Prophet (Sm) as a Rasul are called Fi'li or 'activity- based Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">The Taqriri or agreement-based Hadith includes what the Sahabis (the followers) used to say about Shariat and do in presence of the great Prophet (Sm) who did not oppose them, rather gave his agreement to them by keeping silent.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">In view of the Sanad or Rabee (Hadith describers) Hadith can be divided into three types Marfoo Hadiths are those whose sources of descriptions reached upto Rasulullah (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Mawqoof Hadith Mawqoof Hadiths are those whose sources of description could be traced upto the Sahabis (the followers).</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Maqtu Hadiths are those whose sources of description could be traced upto the Tabieen (i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">their speeches, activities or approval).</sent>
				<sent id ="400">And there is another kind of Hadith which is called Hadith-e-Qudsi.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">The basic fact about this type of Hadith was received from Allah by the holy Prophet (Sm) and afterwards he informed his ummats of this in his own language.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The description of Hadiths from individual to individual is called Sanad.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">And the persons who have described the Hadiths are called the Rabee.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">The gist or the main message of Hadith is called Matan.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Generally, the writing of Hadith during the life-time of Rasulullah (Sm) was prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Because, if the Hadith was written down at that time, there might have been a risk of mixing the Hadith with the Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">The people of Arabia had strong memory.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Encouraging them to memorize the Hadith the holy Prophet (Sm) said, The person who will listen to my Hadith, preserve it and disseminate it to others in the same way as he/she had listened will be fortunate.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">The Sahabis (the followers) memorised the Hadith and conveyed them to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">During the reign of Khulafa-e- Rashedin and Bani Umayyad, the Hadith of Rasul (Sm) was thus memorised and preserved for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">But the letters, contracts, charters etc. of Rasulullah (Sm) were preserved in the written form.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Moreover, a good number of Sahabis had written many Hadiths of Rasulullah (Sm) on their personal initiative.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">In this regard, Saheefa- As-Sadika of Abdullah Ibn Amar Ibn Aas (R) consisting of five hundred Hadiths is specially mentionable.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">At the beginning of Hizri 100, the famous Umayyad Caliph Umar Ibn Abdul Aziz (R) gave orders for writing down the Hadith at the official level.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">The first exclusive collection of Hadith is Imam Malik's (R) 'Muwatya'.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">The third century of Hizri is the golden period of compilation of Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Six exclusive books on Hadith were compiled during that period.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Taken together, these are called Sihah Sittah or six exclusive books of Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Allah, the Merciful, has described all the orders, restrictions, principles, rules and regulations of Islamic Shariat in the Qur'an Majid.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The directions, basic rules and instructions of Shariat have been described very briefly in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">The great Prophet (Sm) used to give necessary explanations to implement these short directions and instructions.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">These explanations and analyses made by the Prophet (Sm) are Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">For example, orders to establish Salat (prayers) have been given in the Qur'an Majid.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">But detailed descriptions as to how many times a day we are required to perform, how many Rakats are to be performed at each time and how to perform in each Rakat are not given in the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">In the same way, the matter of Zakat is told in the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">But in it no mention has been made as to the quantity of Zakat to be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">The descriptions of the rules and regulations given by the great Prophet (Sm) as per the desire of Allah are the Hadiths.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Meaning: Accept those that the Rasul (Sm) gives you and keep away from those that he prohibits.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">The great Prophet (Sm) himself hinting at the necessity of the Hadith, said: Meaning: I am leaving two things amongst you.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">As long as you hold these two things tight, you will not lose your way one is Allah's Kitab (Qur'an) and the other is the Sunnah of Allahs Rasul (Sm) (Mashkat).</sent>
				<sent id ="431">As each and every Ayat and direction of the Qur'an gives light to human beings leading them towards the right way, in the same way, the Hadith of Rasul (Sm) leads the entire mankind towards the path of justice, truth and peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">As the Qur'an is ever true, so is Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">In this connection, it is declared in the Qur'an Majid: Meaning: You say, do as Allah and His (Allah's) Rasul say.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">If you do not do so, then know that Allah does not like the Kafirs .</sent>
				<sent id ="435">The great Prophet (Sm), in his speech on the occasion of his last Hajj (pilgrimage), directed the Muslim Ummah and said, It is the duty of those who are present here to convey my message to others who are not present today.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">It is proved in the context of the above discussion that the importance and necessity of the Propthet's (Sm) Hadiths in the life of mankind is unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Meaning: Surely (the results of) all activities are dependent on the intentions.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">There is at least some purpose behind every action of a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Nobody does any activity without any purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">We can learn about the nature of the purposes or objectives of our action from this Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">The success of an action depends on Niyyat (the intention).</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Honest intentions bring good results.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">No good can be achieved from any action if the intentions are not good.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">For example, it is described in the latter part of this Hadith that a person gets the pleasure of Allah and His Rasul (Sm) if he/she goes on Hizrat (travels) for the pleasure of Allah and Allah's Rasul (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="445">And if a person travels for having any worldly material gain or for marrying any woman, he will get exactly that.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">For example, a woman named Umme Qais accepted Islam and travelled to Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Then an unknown person travelled to Madina with the intention of marrying that woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Hearing this news, the great Prophet (Sm) narrated this important Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">One can get Sawab (virtue) whenever one intends to do some good work.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Importance of this Niyyat (intention) leads to deciding of Jannat (heaven) for the Mumins and Jahannam (Hell) for the Kafirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Meaning: Islam is based on five pillars: to give evidence that there is no Illah (Lord) but Allah and Muhammad (Sm) is Allah's Rasul, to establish Salat (namz), to give Zakat, to perform Hajj (the pilgrimage) and to fast during the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">(Bukhari and Muslim).</sent>
				<sent id ="453">The great Prophet (Sm) mentioned the fundamentals of Islam in this Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">Islam does not become complete without the coordination of these five aspects.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Faith in Allah & Rasul (Sm) is one of these five pillars.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">In this Hadith Islam has been compared with a tent made of five pillars.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">The pillar in the middle of the tent is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">This pillar is the faith in Allah and Rasul (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="459">The other pillars of the tent are also very essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">A tent remains standing when all these pillars are present.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">For want of one, the others fall down.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">For want of the middle pillar, the entire tent collapses.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Therefore, to become a perfect Muslim, coordination of these five things within oneself is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">In this Hadith all kinds of physical iba'dat (worships) are hinted at by mentioning Salat (namaz) and Saum (fasting).</sent>
				<sent id ="465">And Salat is such an iba'dat that it prevents a man from all sorts of vulgarity and unfair activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">Salat is a pillar of deen (religion).</sent>
				<sent id ="467">Saum is a physical iba'dat which is done for expressing allegiance to Allah only.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">There is no possibility of any Ria (display) in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Zakat is the kind of iba'dat performed by distributing and sharing one's wealth and expressing one's gratitude to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">Hajj is the kind of iba'dat which one can perform if one has physical as well as financial ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Therefore, it is essential to express our gratitude to Allah Ta'la through our mouth, body and wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Meaning: The person who has learnt the Holy Qur'an himself and has taught others is the best amongst you.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">The Qur'an Majid is the Kalam (message) of Allah, the Greatest.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">It is the source of all knowledge and science and Hedayat (rectificaiton).</sent>
				<sent id ="475">It is the proper guide to mankind and the preserver and carrier of human welfare in the earthly life and the life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">We are required to learn and know how to acquire this invaluable wealth of the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">In this Hadith, the learner of the Holy Qur'an has been mentioned as more honourable than any other learner because he/she has devoted himself/herself to acquiring knowledge of such a book in which there is no scope of any doubt.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">This book will improve his character and release him from greed and lust, jealousy and malice, and beastly behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">This will make him sympathetic towards the poor, the distressed and the helpless people.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">This will inspire him to struggle to eradicate injustice and oppression from society.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">In the same way, one who devotes oneself to teachings the Holy Qur'an is the best teacher in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">The analysis of history shows that the teachings of the Qur'an have heightened a nation which was drowned at the extreme bottom of darkness and brought them to the light of knowledge from the darkness of jaheliyyat (illiteracy).</sent>
				<sent id ="483">The people of this nation were once regarded as great teachers of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">The darkness of Europe has been removed by the very light of the Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">The Muslims can achieve greatness in the world even today by devoting themselves to the study, teaching and research of the Qur'an and by applying its (the Qur'an's) teachings in their own lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Therefore, we will learn the Qur'an and devote ourselves to the task of teaching it.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">Meaning: The marks or features of a hypocrite are three: he lies when he speaks, he breaks the promise that he makes and he misappropriates what is placed in his custody.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">The character of the hypocrites has been exposed in this Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">He lies whenever he speaks.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">He breaks the promise that he makes.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">He misappropriates what is placed in his custody.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">These three activities are very detestable and condemnable.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">For example, a lie is the root of all evils.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">Lies destroy a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Liars are hated in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Breaking promises is a dangerous fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">The person who breaks promises can never achieve success in any work.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">He/she faces big problems in business and commerce, transactions etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">The great Prophet (Sm) says in a Hadith: The person who does not keep his promise, is not religious at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Breaking promises is a seriously heinous act.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">Nobody has any respect for the person who is engaged in such activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">The holy Prophet (Sm) said: The person who does not maintain trust, has no (perfect) Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">The speech, activity and intention of a hypocrite have been hinted at by mentioning these three traits of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">If co-ordination of these three traits takes place in a person, he/she becomes a munafiq (real hypocrite).</sent>
				<sent id ="505">He/she will have to face serious consequences.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">He/she will be thrown into the lowest stage of hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">Therefore, we will always save ourselves from munafiq (hypocricy).</sent>
				<sent id ="508">Meaning : If a Muslim plants a tree or grows crops and if a bird or a man or a four-footed animal eats that, it will be regarded as the alms or gift on behalf of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">(Bukhari & Muslim).</sent>
				<sent id ="510">This Hadith of the great Prophet (Sm) is an epoch making Hadith in the field of socio-economic development of human society.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">In this Hadith the great Prophet (Sm) has encouraged us for planting trees and farming because these two are the most essential things for all human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">Food, clothing and shelter are the basic needs of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">For all these things, human beings in one way or another depend on tree-plantation and cultivation of agricultural fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">This Hadith has taught us that plantation of trees is a pious and virtuous act.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">It is not a matter of shame.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">In the same way, producing crops is a virtuous work.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">Whoever is benefited by this, the labour of the labourers does not go in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">Rather, he acquires Sawab (virtue) in exchange of this.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">We will plant more trees, take care of them and try to produce more crops in the fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">Meaning: All the created beings are dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">Therefore, he who graces the created beings of Allah, is the dearest one to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">The whole universe is like Allah's family.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">Allah rears all and provides for all.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">Allah has not made all creations equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">This is a test of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">Amongst the members of Allah's family, the person who is kind to all creations is dearer to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">Human beings, animals, livestock and birds are all Allah's creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">This Hadith inspires us to be kind to all the creations of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">Allah graces the person who graces Allah's creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">Human beings is the best of all the created beings, i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">For this reason, they have to be kind to other living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">Kindness to creatures is in fact a great virtue also.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">Therefore, we have to be kind to all the living things and beings of this universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">Meaning: Help your brother, even if he is an oppressor or an oppressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">If he is an oppressor, try to prevent him from oppressing others.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">And if he is an oppressed, help him (save him from the cruelty of the oppressor).</sent>
				<sent id ="537">In this Hadith, Rasulullah (Sm) has directed us to help both the oppressor and the oppressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">He termed both the oppressor and the oppressed as brothers of Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">It is a duty of a Muslim to save his brother from danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">When a Mazlum (an innocent helpless victim) or an oppressed person is a victim to oppression, his brother can never keep quiet and sit idle.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">He must oppose and resist it because a Muslim nation is a just nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">They have been created to establish justice with all their might, ability and strength when any unjust or hateful incident takes place in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">For this, he has to struggle and fight it out, if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">We have a responsibility even towards the person who is an oppressor because he is our brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">Rather his character needs to be rectified.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">The Prophets (Nabi-Rasuls) and the great men have thus eradicated oppression from society and transformed the oppressor into a good person.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">Therefore, we will try to rectify the oppressors, terrorists and the bad people in our society and come forward to helping the oppressed and helpless persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">Meaning: A Muslim is the brother of another Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">He can neither oppress him nor hand him over to the enemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">Allah fulfils the need of the person who tries to fulfil the need of his Muslim brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">Muslims are brothers of one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">Islam directs that one will help the other in times of danger and difficulty, save his prestige, honour, life and property, can never oppress the other Muslim brother and hand him over to his enemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">The great Prophet (Sm) says in this regard: The virtuous people (owners of Iman) are like a single body in mutual kindness, love and sympathy.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">The whole body becomes sick if any part of it is sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">It is essential on the part of a Muslim to respond to the call of his other Muslim brother to fulfil his need.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">Therefore, we will always devote ourselves to the service of humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">Meaning: The faithful and truthful Muslim traders will accompany the martyrs in the day of judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">Trade and commerce is a holy profession.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">The main aim of the person involved in this profession is to serve the people, to place the essential commodities at the door- steps of the people and to ensure the arrangement of collection and proper distribution of commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">If the trader is honest and truthful, only then the aims and objectives of this trade and commerce may be achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">And if the trader is dishonest, the basic aim of business will be destroyed and people will be cheated at every step.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">For this reason, the great Prophet (Sm) mentioned the rare status of the Muslim traders who are honest, just and truthful and said: They would remain with the martyrs on the day of judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">The martyr acquires the rare status of Shahadat (martyrdom) by letting the fresh blood of his chest flow on to the path of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">To do business with honesty and justice in the age of dishonesty and cheating is equivalent to Jiha'd.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">And to fight against the instincts is the best Jiha'd.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">It is very difficult to carry out business and trade with honesty and faithfulness basing on Islam in an atmosphere of interest- based business and transactions.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">A Muslim business man can only participate in the struggle against this unfavourable atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">And Allah will then offer him/her, in exchange of it, the rare status of Shahadat (martyrdom) in Akhirat ( hereafter).</sent>
				<sent id ="569">Therefore, we will be honest in trade and commerce.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Meaning: There are two sentences which are very dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">These are very easy to pronounce, but very heavy on the weighing scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">The two sentences are: Subhanallahi wa -bihamdihi, Subhanallahil-Azim.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">Praises be to Allah, the Holiest.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">Allah, the Holiest, is the evergreatest.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">In this Hadith two sentences are mentioned, whose Zikir (recitation) is very dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">Also they are easy for people to read and people can acquire much Sawab (virtues) by uttering them.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">Allah Ta'ala is free from all errors and omissions.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">He has no want.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">Allah is not dependant on anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">This vast world is the creation of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">Allah has no partner in the matter of creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">When we look at the vast sky and the earth, the saying Subhaballahi-wa-bihamdihi spontaneously comes out of our hearts.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">Allah is the Holiest and all the praises be to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Allah is the protector of the whole world.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">We live under the endless kindness and grace of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">Everything in this world is for Allah's praise; Allah is Great.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">With this realization we ought to utter Subhanallahil Azim - Allah, the Holiest; Allah is the ever greatest.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">Therefore, through these two holy Kalimah (sentences) we will always remember Allah and the scale of our virtue will be heavier in the world hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">Ijma is the third source of islamic Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">Its place is immediately after the Quran and the Sunnah.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">The dictionary meaning of Ijma is Ittifaq or consensus.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">In the Islamic language, maintaining of consensus on a subject of Shariat by the pious researchers (Mujtahids) of the Muslim Ummah of the same period is called Ijma.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">Asserting Ijma as a document and source of Shariat, the holy Prophet (Sm) said: What the Muslims think to be good is also good to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">He further said: My followers (Ummat) will not agree on any wrong issue.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">A lot of issues were settled among the Sahabis (the followers) by Ijma or agreement just after the death of the great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="596">Ijma is hinted at in different Ayats of the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">Allah says: Meaning: And I have made you the moderate Ummats so that you can be the witnesses for human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">Here the followers of Muhammad (Sm) have been called the followers of middle path or the just followers.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">Therefore, their Ijma is a document.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">The Muslim society was never inert, inactive and stagnant.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">This society was always dynamic.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">During the life - time of the great Prophet (Sm) such issues arose the soluation to which were not found in the Qur'an directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="603">Then he would solve them by cosulting with the distinguished Sahabis.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">After his death, in the ages of Khulafa-e-Rashideen if there were any such issues as having no solutions in the Qur'an and the Sunnah, they (Khalafa-e-Rashideen) would solve them after taking opinions of the chief Sahabis (followers).</sent>
				<sent id ="605">During the period of Hazrat Umar (R) consensus of the Sahabis on many issues was established.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">For example, by Ijma of the Sahabis, the practice of twenty Rakats of Salatut Tarabih in congregation on the nights of the month of Ramadan was introduced at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">New issues were solved in the same way during the period of the Tabiyee too.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">Ijma is an unchallenging document relating to the issues of Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">Ijma cannot be opposed in anyway.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">The world is ever changing.</sent>
				<sent id ="611">New questions arise with the changing circumstances of the world, new issues are being created and different complexities are cropping up.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">Islam is capable of facing these problems and answering the questions arising in all times.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">This is because Islam is a dynamic system of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">Apart from this, Allah, the Creator of this universe, is the Maker of laws of Islamic Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">Allah is quite aware of the present and future of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">So the basic ideas of Shariat have been presented in the Qur'an and the Hadith in such a way that the future problems can be solved in the light of these ideas.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">And this is what Qiyas is.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">As a document of Shariat the status of Qiyas is next to that of Ijma.</sent>
				<sent id ="619">Qiyas is the fourth source of Islamic laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">The dictionary meaning of the term Qiyas is to measure, infer and compare.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">In the terminology of Shariat, Qiyas is to apply the previous rules to solve the problems that crop up, in the light of the previous decisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="622">Meaning: O wise people, learn through your deep thought and wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">(Sura Hashar - Allah, the great, has directed (the thinkers) to do Qiyas or measure some objects with other equivalent objects in this Ayat.</sent>
				<sent id ="624">Qiyas is only applicable to the cases where direct solutions in the Qur'an or Sunnah or Ijma' are not available.</sent>
				<sent id ="625">Here is an example: When Rasulullah (Sm) sent Muaz Ibn-Jabal (R) to Yemen as Qazi (judge), the Prophet (Sm) asked him: How will you take decisions when any problem will arise?</sent>
				<sent id ="626">He answered: According to the holy book of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="627">Rasulullah (Sm) said: And if you don't find it there?</sent>
				<sent id ="628">He replied: According to the Sunnah of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="629">He again asked: If you do not find it there too?.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">He then replied that he would decide by using his own conscience and intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="631">Then Rasulullah (Sm) said, All the praises be to Allah Who made him reply in such words through His messenger as His Rasul (Sm) was pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="632">The Sahabis (the followers) of Rasulullah(Sm) used to do Qiyas and solve the newly cropped-up problems in the light of the Qur'an and Sunnah.</sent>
				<sent id ="633">Qiyas will not be applicable in those cases about which solutions are available in the Qur'an, Hadith and Ijma.</sent>
				<sent id ="634">Qiyas would not go against the Qur'an, Hadith and Ijma.</sent>
				<sent id ="635">Formulation of any rule against the basic rules introduced through the Qur'an, Hadith and Ijma is outside the domain of Qiyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="636">The basic principles of Qiyas should be within the limit of human knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">All subjects have some of their own terminologies.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">Islamic Shariat has also its own terminologies.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">It is possible to realize the phase wise importance of the rules and regulations of Islamic Shariat through these terminologies.</sent>
				<sent id ="640">There are certain rules of Shariat which must be obeyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="641">To discard those with negligence is an act of faithlessness.</sent>
				<sent id ="642">And if these are not performed by one out of idleness, one will be strongly punished.</sent>
				<sent id ="643">Rules and regulations of this kind are called Farz.</sent>
				<sent id ="644">There are certain rules of Shariat which everybody ought to follow.</sent>
				<sent id ="645">There is provision for punishment in the case of breaking these laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="646">Rules of this kind are called Wajib.</sent>
				<sent id ="647">There are some acts which the great Prophet (Sm) himself performed and instructed his Ummats (the followers) to perform.</sent>
				<sent id ="648">Provision of punishment is also there for not performing them.</sent>
				<sent id ="649">Besides these, there are some acts which were done by the Prophet (Sm) but he did not insist his Ummats on doing so.</sent>
				<sent id ="650">Both of these acts are known as the Prophet's Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="651">Those good activities are Mustahab which Rasulullah (Sm) inspired his Ummats to perform.</sent>
				<sent id ="652">We have come to know from this discussion that the terminologies of Shariat are four.</sent>
				<sent id ="653">We will now discuss these terminologies in detail.</sent>
				<sent id ="654">The activities which according to the documents of the Qur'an and the Sunnah must be performed and not subject to violation, are called Farz.</sent>
				<sent id ="655">The Farz activities can not be discarded in any way.</sent>
				<sent id ="656">It is a great sin not to perform the Farz activities, and the person who refuses to do so is a Kafir.</sent>
				<sent id ="657">The Farz activities which each Muslim has to perform individually are called Farz-e-A'in.</sent>
				<sent id ="658">Farz-e-A'in can not be left without any reasonable cause as per Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="659">For example, to establish salat five times a day, to observe Saum (keep fasting) during the month of Ramadan, to pay Zakat, to perform Hajj (the pilgrimage) once in a life - time on the part of a wealthy and healthy person etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="660">It is a serious sin not to perform the Farz-e-A'in.</sent>
				<sent id ="661">If some Muslims in society perform an act which is obligatory (Farz) on all the Muslims, the rest are not liable for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="662">Activities of this kind are called Farz-e-Kefaya, e.g. the Salatul Janaza, Jiha'd etc. Wajib is near to Farz and must be obeyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="663">It is not proved by the absolute document or the Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="664">As wajib is near to Farz, it must be performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="665">If anybody does not obey Wajib, he/she will not be a Kafir, but it will be a serious sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="666">It is essential to perform Sijdah Sahu in the case of giving-up the Wajib activities in salat, otherwise, it is Wajib to perform again.</sent>
				<sent id ="667">It is Wajib to say Eidul Fitr, Eidul-Adha and Salatul Witr.</sent>
				<sent id ="668">The activities which ought to be performed by the Muslims as directed by the great Prophet (Sm) and his Sahabis (the followers) are called Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="669">Sunnat is of two kinds: Sunnat-e-Muakkada and Sunnat-e-Zaida or Gair Muakkada.</sent>
				<sent id ="670">The kinds of iba'dat (worship) which the great Prophet (Sm) always used to perform by himself and insisted others on performing these are called Sunnat-e- Muakkada.</sent>
				<sent id ="671">Since it is near to Wajib it should be performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="672">It is a sin to give up Sunnat-e-Muakkada without any reason.</sent>
				<sent id ="673">To say salat of two Rakat of Sunnat before Farz of Fajr prayer, four Rakats before Farz of Zuhr prayer and two Rakats after it, two Rakats after Farz of Magrib and Isha prayers all are Sunnat-e-Muakkada.</sent>
				<sent id ="674">Azan (the call for prayer) and Iqamat are also Sunnat-e-Muakkada.</sent>
				<sent id ="675">The activities which the great Prophet (Sm) sometimes would perform and sometimes gave up and did not insist on doing these are called Sunnat-e-Gair Muakkada.</sent>
				<sent id ="676">For example, to say prayer of four Rakats of Sunnat before Farz of A'sr and Isha prayer is termed Sunnat-e-Gair Muakkada.</sent>
				<sent id ="677">Rasulullah (Sm) has inspired his Ummat to perform some activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="678">It is a virtue to perform these activities but there is no sin for not performing them.</sent>
				<sent id ="679">These activities are called Mustahab.</sent>
				<sent id ="680">The kinds of iba'dat in addition to Farz, Wajib and Sunnat are regarded as Mustahab.</sent>
				<sent id ="681">Mustahab is also known as Nafal or Mandoob.</sent>
				<sent id ="682">The world is a laboratory for a human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="683">His/her stay here is for a short while.</sent>
				<sent id ="684">And Akhirat is the permanent living place for him/her.</sent>
				<sent id ="685">That life is permanent.</sent>
				<sent id ="686">In order to test human beings in this temporal world, Allah has made some objects haram and some halal for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="687">For example, for a male to use gold and wear garments made of silk got from the silkworm are Haram (prohibited).</sent>
				<sent id ="688">Shariat has made those objects halal (legal) which are beneficial and delicious for human beings, and has made those objects haram (prohibited) which are harmful to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="689">Halal means legitimate or legal.</sent>
				<sent id ="690">Those matters whose legality is proved clearly by the Qur'an and the Hadith are called 'halal'.</sent>
				<sent id ="691">The activities or items of food in which no disobedience to Allah is seen and by which the right of others is not harmed are considered to be halal.</sent>
				<sent id ="692">Halal is opposite to haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="693">Haram is avoidable as halal is acceptable.</sent>
				<sent id ="694">The activities or objects whose proof of being halal is available in the document of the Qur'an and Hadith are called 'halal Bayyin' or clear halal.</sent>
				<sent id ="695">For example, to carry out trade and business and to make transactions in the ways directed by Allah and Rasul (Sm), to eat the meat of halal animals, etc. are halal Bayyin (clean halal).</sent>
				<sent id ="696">The activities and objects which are prohibited by the clear instructions of the Qur'an and Sunnah and which are definitely avoidable and worth giving up are called haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="697">It is a serious sin to do haram things knowingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="698">And to regard haram as halal or halal as haram is Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="699">The halal objects are innumerable.</sent>
				<sent id ="700">It is not possible to make a list of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="701">Allah, the Merciful, says: If you count the Niamat (gifts) of Allah, you cannot finish counting them.</sent>
				<sent id ="702">The number of haram objects is limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="703">It is haram to eat the meat of dead animals, but to eat dead fish is halal.</sent>
				<sent id ="704">The blood which flows after an animal is slaughtered is haram, but the blood which remains with the meat of the halal animals is not haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="705">To eat pork is haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="706">To eat human flesh is haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="707">To eat the meat of animals which are sacrificed in the names of gods and goddesses is haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="708">To eat the meat of the halal animals killed by strangulation, chopping, throwing down from high places or killed by a blunt weapon is haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="709">Blood does not flow in this way and this is absolute cruelty.</sent>
				<sent id ="710">The meat of ferocious animals, e.g. the lion, the tiger, the bear, the fox, the dog etc. and of ferocious birds, e.g. the hawk, the kite etc. is haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="711">The animals which are generally unholy and live on dead animals are also haram, e.g. the crow, the vulture etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="712">The animals which are troublesome, poisonous and harmful are also haram, e.g. the snake, the scorpion etc. (10) The meat of the donkey, the mule and the elephant is haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="713">(11) The objects which cause defects in the brain and intoxication are haram to take or drink, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="714">heroin, wine, opium, etc. and all other drugs.</sent>
				<sent id ="715">Allah has created mankind as the best of all creations (Ashraful Makhluqat).</sent>
				<sent id ="716">And He has employed all the things of the world for the welfare of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="717">For example, Allah says: Allah has created everything of this world for your service.</sent>
				<sent id ="718">Allah knows which objects of this world are helpful for their bodies, minds, brains and souls and which objects are unhelpful, which objects are useful and which objects are harmful to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="719">So Allah has made those things halal which benefit human beings and keep their bodies and minds healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="720">Halal food brings light to the heart and grows a sense of hatred towards injustice and dishonest people and increases good qualities in human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="721">If you eat halal food, your attention to iba'dat will enhance.</sent>
				<sent id ="722">And that is why, inspiring the prophets to eat halal food, Allah says: O holy Prophets, eat halal things and perform good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="723">I am well aware of what you do.</sent>
				<sent id ="724">Addresing all human beings, Allah the Holiest, says: Meaning: O human beings, eat the halal and good things of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="725">Haram food, drinks and objects must be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="726">There are such elements in certain items of food and drink as can cause abnormality in healthy brains, create madness and help diminish memory, e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="727">heroin, wine, opium, ganja, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="728">These things harm human bodies severely, damage social atmosphare and cripple human beings economically.</sent>
				<sent id ="729">These bad habits make men bankrupt.</sent>
				<sent id ="730">Gambling, housey, lottery are haram in the eye of Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="731">These are profane and satanic acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="732">A man loses everything if he is involved in these acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="733">Allah says in this regard: Meaning: O pious people, drinking wine, gambling, worshipping images etc. are the evil acts of devils.</sent>
				<sent id ="734">Therefore, keep away from these things so that you can achieve welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="735">Modern scientific researches have proved that there are such germs in the bodies of wild animals that are harmful to human bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="736">So those can not be halal for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="737">Moreover, eating haram food develops bad habits and bad character, destroys interest in iba'dat and the prayers of the haram-eaters are not accepted.</sent>
				<sent id ="738">The Prophet (Sm) said in this regard.</sent>
				<sent id ="739">Many people come back from long journeys and start praying with devotion raising both the hands to Allah saying: O Lord of the universe!</sent>
				<sent id ="740">But how their prayers will be accepted since their food and drinks, dress and clothing are all of haram earnings?</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
