<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-islam-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.92</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">737</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">10900</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2761</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t116">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The word Akhlaq is the plural form of khuluqun.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">It means behaviour, nature or character of a person in general.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Akhlaq means both good character and bad character.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The good character is called Akhlaq-e-Hameedah and that of bad character is called Akhlaq-e-Zameemah.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">If the nature of a man is nice, guiltless and polished as a whole, then it is called Akhlaq-e-Hameedah or good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The nature or behaviour which is praised and accepted in every society as well as liked by Allah and Allah's Rasul (Sm) is called Akhlaq-e-Hameedah or praise-worthy character.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">As for example, Akhlaq-e-Hameedah is characterised by Taqwa and other attributes originated from Taqwa like honesty, faithfulness as a custodian, keeping decency, Adl (justice), helping the helpless and the distressed, cleanliness, refinement etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">In the terminology of Islam and according to Islamic Shariat, the proper, decent, beneficial and just practice of behaviours and manners relating to mutual rights and duties of men is called Akhlaq-e-Hameedah.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">A simple and beautiful nature and good character are called Akhlaq-e-Hameedah.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Akhlaq-e-Hameedah is a fundamental human virtue and the best asset of a person's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Without it, all other assets are valueless.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The worldly happiness and security of a person depend on this virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Also his/her happiness in life hereafter and his salvation from worldly sins are dependent on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The more a man's nature and character is excellent, the more he does good things and more he is loved by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: Good behaviour is a virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Once the Prophet (Sm) was asked: For which activity will more people be entered into heaven?</sent>
				<sent id ="17">He said: Meaning: Fear of Allah and good behavior He further said: Surely, the thing that will make a believer's balance more weighty on the day of judgement is good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">To be a true believer one should possess good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">In this respect, the Prophet (Sm) said: They are the true Mumins who are of good character The nature and behaviour which are hated and blamed in every society, such as, telling lies, cheating, committing sins, breach of promise, torture, blaming and speaking ill of others and creating disturbances in society are called Akhlaq-e- Zameemah.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Here we will discuss Taqwa, the vital force of good character and some other virtues originated from Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The word Taqwa menas fear of Allah, performing religious activities, self- rectification, avoiding wrong doings and keep oneself away from danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">According to Islam, Taqwa means the way of life in which all types of injustices and sins are avoided for fear of Allah and which is led according to the directions of the Holy Qur'an and Sunnah.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">To fear Allah means to obey the orders and directions of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The fear of Allah reflects the idea that He is our Creator and Provider and has given us the capacity to differentiate between good and evil and has given us power to do our work.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">He observes everything and knows what we have in our mind also.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">On the day of final judgement, we all will have to be accountable to Him for our good and bad actions.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">We will be rewarded for our good actions and punished for our bad actions.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Those who are aware of these, will refrain from committing sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">About this, Allah says: Meaning: He who is afraid of standing before Allah and keeps himself aloof from doing wrong, will be placed in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">(Sura An-Naziat : 40-41).</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Irrespective of one's nation, religion, caste and sect one can be termed as a person of good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">But one cannot possess real virtues unless one has Taqwa in one's heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Islamic Akhlaq or real good character is actually a set of good qualities based on Prophet Muhammad's (Sm) ideal and Islamic education based on Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">In the Islamic way of life, Taqwa is the origin of all virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">It is a noble feature of a person's character.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The significance of Taqwa in moulding a good character is unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Almighty Allah knows everything, hears everything, sees everything and knows what is going on in one's mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">A person who believes all these and believes that he will have to be accountable to Him for his actions, cannot think about or cannot commit any sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Because he knows that he can cheat all others but he cannot cheat Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The Mumin (believer) who cherishes Taqwa in him, cannot be allured and cannot indulge in sins even when he is in a solitary place.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Taqwa is the solid fortification of good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">He who cherishes Taqwa feels His omnipresence.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">He cannot commit any sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Therefore, Taqwa is the basic principle of leading an honest life.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">On the other hand, a person devoid of Taqwa cannot be a sincere and honest person.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">All his/her activities are showy and deceitful in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">A person can indulge in any sin at any weak moment if he has no Taqwa in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Allah values Taqwa most.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">He says: Meaning: Amongst you who have Taqwa most are honoured by Allah most.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The outline, importance and kinds of Akhlaq.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The outline, importance and the influence of Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">We will build our character according to the teachings of Islam and will observe Taqwa in all our activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Truthfulness is one of the virtues originated from Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">It is one of the greatest virtues that we find in a Muttaqi.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The Arabic word for truthfulness is Sidq.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Sidq means exposing and expressing facts in their reality.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">And the person who speaks the truth is called Sadiq.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">And to prove and tell something which has no existence in reality is called lying.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The Arabic word for lying is Kizb and a liar is called Kazib.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Speaking the truth is a great virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He who speaks the truth is trusted and loved by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Our great Prophet (Sm) was loved by everybody from his childhood for his truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Those who tell lies are not trusted and loved by others.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Lying is a great sin and it is the root of all evils.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Lying is the root of all sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Allah is displeased with the liars.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Truthfulness brings salvation and success while falsehood leads to destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">In this regard, Prophet Muhammad (Sm) says: Meaning: Truthfulness gives emancipation, and falsehood brings destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Emphasizing on truthfulness Prophet Muhammad (Sm) says: Meaning: Be truthful, because truthfulness leads towards the path of virtues and virtues lead towards the path of heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Once a man came to the Prophet (Sm) and said: I steal things, I lie and indulge in many other bad activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">It is not possible on my part to give up all the bad habits overnight.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">So please tell me to give up only one bad thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The Prophet(Sm) told him to give up lying and the man replied that it was an easy task.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Afterwards it was found that as he stopped telling lies, he could not do any other bad things.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Because he thought that he would not be able to tell lies when asked about his bad activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">And if he confessed his bad activities, he would be subject to punishment and he would be ashamed.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Thus by stopping telling lies, he got rid of all other sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Ama'nat means to recieve some thing as a deposit and to keep it safe.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Generally, it means keeping valuable things with someone for safety.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Actually one's life, property, dignity, honour etc. are all Ama'nats to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">He/she who returns the things deposited with him/her without causing any harm, is known as Amin (or Ama'natdar).</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The opposite word for Ama'nat is Khiyanat.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Khiyanat means misappropriation of or causing harm to the deposited things by breaching the trust.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">A person who commits Khiyanat, is known as Khain or misappropriator.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">An Ama'natdar is trusted and loved by everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">No one loves a Khain, and nobody likes him or trusts him.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Emphasizing the needs for maintianing Ama'nat Allah says: Meaning: And surely Allah ordains you to return the deposited things to their owner properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Prophet Muhammad (Sm) says: Meaning: One who lacks in Ama'natdari is not faithful at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">This proves that Ama'natdari is a part of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Those who have Iman or faith cannot misappropriate things deposited to them by others.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">And those who misappropriate are not Mumins or believers in the true sense of the term.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">They are cheats and Munafiqs (hypocrites).</sent>
				<sent id ="93">There are three signs of a Munafiq: they tell lies, misapprotriate things and breach promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">A person who misappropriates is not only despised in human society, also he is despised and cursed by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The Holy Qur'an says: Meaning: And surely Allah does not like those who are Khians Prophet Muhammad (Sm) says: Meaning: And Khiyanat brings poverty.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Scope of Ama'nat: The scope of Ama'nat is very wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Every individual has more or less some responsibilities in his personal, social and national life and in the international affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">All these responsibilities fall in the category Ama'nat.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Children are Ama'nats to their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It is a sacred responsibility of the parents to build up their children's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Students are Ama'nats of their teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">It is the responsibility of the teachers to educate them properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The furniture and other assets of the school are Ama'nats to the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It is their duty to use and maintain these things properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The property and money deposited in the bank are Ama'nats to the manager and the employees of the bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The wealth and rights of the people are Ama'nats to the administrators and employees of the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">It is the duty and Ama'nat of the head of the state to protect the independence of the state, to protect the life and property of its subjects and to fulfil their basic needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was a living embodiment of Ama'natdari.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Even his enemies also acknowledged him as an Ama'natdar.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Everyone called him 'Al-Amin' or faithful and used to deposit their money and wealth to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">During the critical moments of his Hijrat when the kafirs surrounded his house to kill him, he did not forget about the Ama'nats he was entrusted with.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The word Ahd means a promise, an undertaking, a contract, a commitment giving word to someone etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">In Shariat of Islam, Ahd means the act of keeping one's words given earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">It is also known as maintaining of wada.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Keeping a promise is one of the characteristics of a person who leads his/her life with Taqwa or with good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">We live in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">In our social life, we make wada, make contracts and promises with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">It is our sacred duty to comply with all these promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">One who keeps his word, fulfils wada is loved by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Almighty Allah also loves those who are true to their words.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In this regard, Allah Says: Meaning: O Believers!</sent>
				<sent id ="122">You keep your promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">As it is compulsory to repay our debts, it is also compulsory to fulfil our promises or contracts made with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">For the Mumins or true believers it is a compulsory duty to keep promises; it is a demand of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">About Iman, Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) says: To a Mumin a promise is like a debt.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It must be honoured.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">In the court of Allah it will be enquired whether a person has kept his/her promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">About the fulfilment of promises, Allah says: Meaning: You will always keep your promise, because you will be asked about these.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Allah says about those who do not keep their words or who breach their promises: Meaning: O Believers!</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Why do you say such word that you do not keep?</sent>
				<sent id ="131">(Sura Saff : Breaching of promise is a most heinous offence.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">About this offence, Prophet Muhammad (Sm) says: Meaning: One who does not keep his/her word has no Deen.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Prophet Muhammad (Sm) and his close associates or Sahabis (R) used to keep their promises at all costs.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Once the Prophet (Sm) promised to meet a man at a place.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">And he had been waiting for three days at that place to meet him in order to keep his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Adl is an Arabic word.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It literally means maintaining balance, doing Insaf or justice properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">It is like dividing a thing between two claimants in such a way as each gets equal share.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">In the Islamic terminology, Adl means giving a person his/her due share.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The opposite word for Adl is Zulm.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Zulm is the act of depriving a person of his/her due share.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">A court house is called Adalat, because it is the place where verdicts are delivered in favour of the real Haqders or the really deserving persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Adl is a great virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">In the social life of human beings, the importance of Adl is unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Adl is the basis of mutual relationship, social peace and order and good governance.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">In a society, where there is no Adl, there cannot be any peace or security.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In a society or a state where justice is absent no peace and security prevail there.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">In a society where justice prevails, no one dares to commit any wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">As a result peace and order prevail in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Everyone can live with his/her rights and status.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Therefore, Adl is the basis of establishing peace in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Absence of Adl gives way to injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">In a society where punishment to the wrong-doers is absent, injustice spreads all around like a contagious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">And corruption prevails everywhere in that society and pollutes it thoroughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The wrong- doers start their misactivities with renewed vigour whenever they find an opportunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">As a result, law and order disappears from society making life unbearable.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">An honest judge is endowed with Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">He fears Allah and believes that for his judgement he will be accountable to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">So he delivers judgement justly.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">About this, Allah says: Meaning: You establish Adl, because it is very close to Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">(Sura Mayida : 5, In the Hadith, it is said that in the day of the final judgement (Hashr) there will be no shade except the shade of the Arsh of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">At that time the upright judge will be given shelter in the shade under the Arsh of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Adl should be based on the Qur'an and Sunnah.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In this system all are equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">There is no difference between father and mother, son and daughter, relatives and non- relatives, high and low, wicked and gentle, rich and poor, strong and weak in Adl.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">One should not be suppressed for the sake of doing a favour to the others.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">In this respect Allah says: Meaning: You give judgement according to that what Allah has revealed to you and do not follow their ill wills avoiding the truth that has come to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">In the case of a trial speak the truth even if the accused person is your relative.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Allah says in this regard: Meaning: When you speak (about trial) always speak the truth, even if he/she (the person under trial) is a close relative (of yours).</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The Prophet (Sm) was the true embodiment of justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">To him, there was no difference between relative and non-relative, rich and poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Once a lady from the Quraish tribe was caught for stealing.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The Prophet (Sm) ordered that her hand be cut.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Some people pleaded to reduce her punishment as she came of a respectable family.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The Prophet (Sm) got angry and said: If my daughter Fatima is caught for stealing today, her hand would also have to be cut.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">He also said: Listen, your previous nations were destroyed for lacking in this Adl.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Modesty means being polite in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">It also means being sober in dress, conversation, manner and in behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">It also means that one should be polite, good mannered in his personal and social life.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Modesty is that kind of behaviour which reflects one's good taste and refinement.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">One of the aims of the Islamic teachings is to build someone as a purified person.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The importance of modest dressing, polite and decent behaviour cannot be exaggerated in building a happy, peaceful and beautiful society.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Indecent clothes and behaviour arouse bestial instinct in human beings and incite one's nasty lust.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">As a result, various types of problems both in family and social life arise.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Various types of sins are committed.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">To get rid of immodesty and dirty situations, Allah has instructed in Ayats 30-31 of Sura Nur of the Holy Qur'an that both male and female should control their lust and desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He said that they must conceal the private parts of their bodies very carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Women should control themselves and protect their secret limbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">They should not try to expose their beauty beyond what is natural and should not go infront of men outside their family ties, wearing ornaments and gorgeous dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Verses 33 and 59 of Sura Ahzab clearly speak of women's maintaining modest behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Women should be aware of their outer garments and they must not dress immodestly.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">These instructions are imposed to protect women from adultery, torture and anarchy prevailing in society coming down from the pre-Islamic days.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Even today those situations are more widely prevalent.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">If our women abide by the rules and regulations of the Holy Qur'an and the Hadith, their honour and prestige will be protected.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Girls should not roam about outside their houses without any necessity.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">If they have to go out, they should be very careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Their dresses, ornaments and beauty should not arouse lust of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">It means that while going out, women and girls should not dress in such a way as that exposes their beauty to allure men.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Allah says about this: Meaning: You (women) stay inside your own houses and do not go outside wearing dresses of the women of the pre-Islamic era.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The scientific study that helps human beings to acquire the knowledge about Almighty Allah, the Creator, side by side the knowledge of self-rectification is called Tasawuf.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The person who cultivates Tasawuf and practises it in his practical life is known as Sufi.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">There are some concepts about the origin of the Arabic word Sufi.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">According to one view, the word Sufi came from the word Souf.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The word Souf means wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Woollen clothes were very favourite to the religious preachers and worshippers of the ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">During the period of Prophet Muhammad (Sm) his devoted followers also used to wear woollen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">From another point of view, the word Sufi came from the word Soff which means class or grade.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Those who have deep faith in and profound love for Allah achieve the highest place near Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">They succeed in doing this by performing spiritual endeavour and activities with proper iba'dat and submission to Allah for getting His pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">They are the Sufis.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">During the time of Prophet Muhammad (Sm) they used to stay in the veranda of Masjid-e- Nababi and made endeavour and prayed to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">So they were called As-habe Suffa or the inhabitants of the veranda.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">According to another opinion, the word Sufi is originated from the word Safa which means purity or sanctity.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Those who have made themselves free from all types of sins and dirtiness and have acquired perfect purity are called the Sufis.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The desired goal of practising Sufism is to develop ideal character by rectifying the soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">So it is more logical that the word Sufi came from the Arabic word Safa.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Because the Sufis are always devoted to the endeavour of purifying the soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">And it is impossible to elevate oneself in the highest stage of Tasawuf without Tazkia-e-Nafs or rectification of the soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">In fact, by analysing all the opinions regarding the origin of the word Sufi, it becomes clear that Tasawuf is such system of knowledge and activity that enables a person to have a sacred soul and reach nearness to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">At this stage the attributes of Allah are expressed in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">With the help of Ilme Tasawuf or knowledge of self-rectification a person acquires the attributes of Ashraful Makhluqat by getting information regarding the Creator and His creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">And in this way he/she can rectify himself/herself and reach nearness to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">In fact, the study that helps a person to build the best character, shows him/her the way to communicate with Allah through the knowledge regarding Him and that helps him/her to lead a peaceful life by abiding the laws of the Almighty and His Prophet (Sm) is called Tasawuf.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Sometimes Ilme Tasawuf is regareded as Ilmul Qalb, Ilme Mukashafa, Ilme Ladunni etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Self-rectification means rectifying one's ownself and keeping one's ownself pure and free from vices.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">In the technical language of Islam, self-rectification means keeping one's ownself free from all types of sins, crimes and non-Islamic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">It also means correcting one's ownself.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">If you follow the path of vices and evil things, your soul will become polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">If you lead a good life and do good deeds, your soul will remain holy, unpolluted and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The Almighty Allah says: Meaning: By no means!</sent>
				<sent id ="231">But on their hearts is the stain of the ill (sin) which they do!</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Allah Also says: Meaning: The person who keeps his/her soul pure, attains success.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">And the person who pollutes his/her soul, is destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">In fact, a person can attain real virtues easily by practising Tasawuf.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">By the help of it, a person can acquire the human qualities to get the real dignity of man and pleasure of Allah and can have clear idea about the technique of acquiring those qualites.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Shariat is the guideline of Islam for external behaviour and conduct of man, and Ilme Tasawuf is a great vital force in Islam, and the internal vigour of Islam is originated from Tasawuf.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Human beings are called Ashraful Makhluqat or the best of all creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Just before creating human beings Allah declared: Meaning: Surely I am going to create my representative (human beings) in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Endowed with the highest glory among all the creations, it is important and essential for human beings to know about their creator and to lead their lives according to His will.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">And only here lie the peace, prosperity and welfare of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Islam is the complete code of life for human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The rules and regulations that a human being has to follow from the cradle to the grave are given here, and to implement these rules and regulations of peaceful life the practice of Tasawuf is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The Holy Qur'an says: The person who attains purity and devotes himself/herself to Ziqr in the name of his /her Creator and performs Salat, becomes succesful.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">It is said elsewhere: On the day when treasure, wealth, sons and daughters will be of no use, only those will be benefitted who will come to Allah with pure heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Prophet Muhammad (Sm) says: Of course, there is such a piece of flesh inside human body that when it becomes perfectly pure the whole body becomes pure and when it becomes impure, the whole body becomes impure.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">This piece is Qalb (heart).</sent>
				<sent id ="247">In the pre-Islamic era the Arabs were always engaged in such crimes as quarrelling, fighting, killing and committing adultery etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">But they became a civilized, well- organised, prosperous and developed nation by embracing Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Being properly guided by Prophet Muhammad (Sm), the neo-Muslims of Arabia became so deeply imbued with affection, compassion, fellow-feelings, friendship, co-operation and sympathy that they acquired the position of the most prestigious nation of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Following the preachings of Prophet Muhammad (Sm), the Muslims procured unprecedented success in all the areas of education, culture, religion and economy.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">As a result, in most parts of the world exceptional improvements in different fields of science and technology took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Islamic civilization spread in different parts of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Though it is painful, it is true that by practising the fundamental teachings of Islam, the Muslims achieved immense power and glory; but that was lost in the next era, because they abandoned that practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Nowadays we follow the Islamic principles outwardly, but we have no peace of mind and we get no benefit from our iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Its main cause is that we have lost our moral character because of abandoning the practice of the basic Islamic teaching, Ilme Tasawuf.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">In this sub-continent Islam was propagated by the Muslim saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The basic foundation of their education was Ilme Tasawuf.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Only the true Muslim saints can give someone complete Islamic education with the knowledge of Ilme Tasawuf.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Our forefathers became virtuous, coming in contact with the Muslim saints who were the conveyors of the ideology of Prophet Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="260">In the modern age if we can achieve good moral character by following Islamic education properly through cultivating Ilme Tasawuf, we will be able to revive the lost glory of the Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Truthfulness, its introduction, importance and influence.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Ama'nat, its introduction, importance, scope and ideals.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Ahd, its introduction, importance and ideal stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Adl, its introduction, importance, the characteristics of Islamic Adl and ideal stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Modesty, its introduction and importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Introducing to tasawuf and its importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Tasawuf, its introduction and importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">We will practise carefully the above qualities derived from Tasawuf, and follow them and make our life ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Almighty Allah has created whatever things are there in this universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">And in this vast cosmic family human beings are the best creation (Ashraful Makhluqat).</sent>
				<sent id ="271">As the head of a family has so many responsibilities towards the family-members, so human beings have also many duties and responsibilities towards other creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">And performing these duties is called Khidmat-e-Khalq or serving the creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Doing Khidmat-e-Khalq or serving the creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">A human being has innumerable duties towards the creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">As it is a person's duty to help the helpless and distressed people, so he/she has lots of duties towards animals, birds, plants, trees and the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">It is the duty of a person to rear and protect them.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Allah becomes pleased if kind behaviour is shown towards His creation, and if His creation is neglected and is shown cruel behaviour, He becomes displeased.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">About this the Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: The whole creation forms the family of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The person who is most sympathetic to his/her family-members is most favourite to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The Prophet (Sm) also says: Meaning: Take pity on the dwellers of the earth then He who lives above, will show mercy on you.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Seeing his name at the top of the list of the favourite servants of Allah written by an angel, Abu-Ibn Adam (R) asked its reason.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">He was informed: Allah, the Great, loves them most who love His creation most and dedicate themselves to their services.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">You love Allah's creation and have engaged yourself in serving them.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">So your name has topped the list.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Man is the supreme creation amongst the innumerable creations in the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">So to serve a human being is the main duty of a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Specially, it is an important duty to serve the helpless and distressed people.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Allah loves and helps the person who helps the helpless people.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The Great Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: Allah remains engaged in helping His servant, so long he (i.e. the servant) remains engaged in helping his brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Allah will not be kind to one if one does not serve the helpless people.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">In this regard, the great Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: Allah is not kind to one who is not kind to man.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">One man is brother to another man.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">So it is a duty of a man to be kind to the hungry, the thirsty, the sick, the insolvent or the distressed person and to try his best to remove his grievance.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">The great Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: Give food to the hungry, nurse the sick, set the prisoner free and release the indebted person from indebtedness.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">One has to serve the helpless and distressed person even if he is one's deadly enemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">One kafir old woman used to spread thorns everyday on the way of the great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="297">But one day the Prophet (Sm) did not see thorns on his way, and did not see the old woman too.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Kind hearted Prophet (Sm) thought that certainly the old woman had fallen sick, and so she could not spread thorns on the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">He went to the house of the old woman to see what happened to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">He saw that she was really sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">He sat at her head and gave her proper nursing.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">The old woman came round and became ashamed at her misdeeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">From then, she did never spead thorns on the way of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="304">In the Hadith, we also find: If one Muslim gifts clothes to another Muslim, Allah will gift him the clothes of Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">If he gives him food when he is hungry, Allah will give him the fruits of Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">If one gives water to a thristy Muslim, Allah will give one the holy water from the sealed container of Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The duty of a man is not confined to serving humanity only.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">He should also extend his hand to serving animals and birds, plants and trees, worms and insects etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">He has unbounded duties also to preserve environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Sometimes we give trouble to birds and animals for nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">In the Hadith, it is narrated: Once a woman tied a cat and stopped giving it food and drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The cat died from hunger and thirst.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">For that the woman was severely punished.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Sometimes children destroy nests of birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">They catch young birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">It gives them a lot of pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Once a Sahabi (R) came to the Prophet (Sm) taking a young bird in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Seeing the offspring the mother bird began to move around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Then the Prophet (Sm) said: Go and put the young bird where it was.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">There is unlimited need for trees, fruits and grains for the livelihood of the living creatures,</sent>
				<sent id ="321">The influence of trees and plants on preserving environment is very great.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">In Islam, as people are asked to plant trees and sow seeds of grains, so are they told to preserve and protect them.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The Prophet (Sm) called the planting of trees and the growing of grains Sadaqa-i-Jaria or continuous gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The Prophet (Sm) strictly forbade destroying trees and seed-plants even during war.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Once a man tore a leaf of a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Seeing that the Prophet (Sm) said: Every leaf declares the glory of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Islam emphasizes strongly for preserving and protecting water and keeping it pure and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">The Prophet (Sm) says: Almighty Allah has printed the word Rahmat on everything so that we treat them kindly.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">We must be kind to the living creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">For our own benefit and to perform our religious duty, we must protect and preserve these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">By the term Nativeland we mean the country where we were born and brought up.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">the place which gives us light and air for our life and also gives us fruits, grains and water for the nutrition of our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">We also call such a place our place of birth or motherland.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Love for this motherland is inherent in human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Love and fascination for this land spring from one's heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">If a man is compelled to go to another land, he cannot forget this love for this nativeland.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">This love and fascination for the land of birth, the motherland, the place where someone played during his/her childhood, is called patriotism.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">The soil, the light, the air, the sky, the weather and the variety of seasons and natural beauty of one's country away and overwhelm one's heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The Prophets (A), saints and intellectuals had also patriotic feelings.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Our beloved Prophet (Sm) was compelled to leave Makka due to the torture of the Kafirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">While he was leaving, he was looking behind at Makka and Ka'ba again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">He uttered remorsefully, Makka, my beloved land of birth, how beautiful you are!</sent>
				<sent id ="343">I love you very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">If the people of my own tribe did not plot against me, I would never leave you.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Having love and attraction for one's own country is part of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">It is said: Meaning: Patriotism is part of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">In the Hadith, it is said: Those who spend sleepless nights keeping watch at the boarder to defend their country will be placed in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Those who are the most ungrateful and not religious they are traitors and their character is contemptible.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">If the country is not secured, religion cannot be exercised freely and there will be no security for the life of the citizens.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Their interest also cannot be preserved.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">One's patriotism is proved through performing one's duties towards one's country.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">If a person wants to prove his/her love for his/her country, he/she has to work for the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">He/she has to sacrifice much for the freedom and sovereignty of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">He/she has to contribute to the development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">The first and foremost condition of loving a country is to love its people.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Real patriotism is to work for the benefit of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">To fight for freedom, sovereignty and security of the country is a duty of a Mumin.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Similarly, it is a duty of a patriot to work and sacrifice for the socio- economic development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">He/she has to work for development in the sectors of education, industry, agriculture, busines, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">In a word, patriotism lies in the service for the people of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Patriotism is a noble virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">We must make ourselves ideal and befitting by acquiring knowledge, education and virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">We have to know our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">We must wholeheartedly love this beautiful land beset with innumerable rivers, which is also highly fertile and green with plentiful crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">We have to regard the welfare of the state as our own welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">We must engage ourselves in work of development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">We must stand with all our might against the enemies of the country like smugglers, blackmarketeers, creators of disturbance and turmoil.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">We must stand against those who act against the interest of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Service to the helpless and the distressed, its importance, ideology of the Prophet (Sm) and consequence of not rendering any service to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Importance of Khidmat-e-Khalq, ideal stories, responsibility of human beings for preserving trees, plants and environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Patriotism, its introduction, importance, ways and means, and pledges.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Man is the best of all creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Almighty Allah has gifted man a beautiful physical form as well as elevated conscience, intelligence and soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Livelihood is necessary to keep the body healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">And for the benefit of the soul, Halal earnings are essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">About this Almighty Allah says: Meaning: You take the best and pure food that I allotted for you as your livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Halal earning means legal earning.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">The income earned according to the instructions and the ways approved by Allah and His Prophet (Sm) is called Halal earning.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Welfare of mankind lies in Halal earnings.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Haram or illegal earnings invite misfortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Almighty Allah has created mankind for His iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">And He has created all other things for the benefit of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">As it is the duty of human beings to do iba'dat of Allah, so it is their duty to look for Halal or legal earning.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Almighty Allah has directed: When you finish salat, go to your work and earn your Halal living .</sent>
				<sent id ="385">The Prophet (Sm) Says: Seeking Halal earnings is a Farz (or essential) after Farz.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Islam does not like laziness, aversion to work and idleness at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">The following Hadith is its sure proof.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">The Prophet (Sm) says: When your salatul Fazar is finished, do not go to sleep without working for your living.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Hazrat Umar (R) said: None of you should sit idle feeling discouraged in trying to seek earnings for your living.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Encouraging people to do manual labour Rasulullah (Sm) says: Nobody has taken better food than one who has earned it with one's own hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">As Halal earnings may be made by manual labour, so also they may be made through official service or trades and business.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">About trades and business the Prophet (Sm) says: Nine tenths of your earnings lie in business.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Business should be done honestly.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">About this the Prophet (Sm) says: The honest and trustworthy Muslim business man will be stay with the martyrs in the day of judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">There are so many ways of Halal earnings except service and business.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">One can acquire Halal earnings by self-employment like rearing cattle, making poultry farm, cultivating fish, planting trees, running small or big nurseries and small scale industries etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">These not only provide self-employment and Halal earnings but also help develop a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Haram earnings are quite opposite to Halal earnings.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Earnings got through illegal ways by a man having no principle or honesty are called Haram earnings.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Cheating, fraud, trickery, adulteration, cheating in weighing commodities, stealing, robbery, hijacking, taking interest and bribes - all these are Haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">To give something to anyone for unjust and illegal benefit is called a bribe.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The bribe is an illegal, unjust and impure income.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">The person who gives bribes and the person who takes bribes both will be thrown into hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">In another Hadith it is said: The Prophet (Sm) cursed those who give bribes and those who take bribes and the persons who act as brokers for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">It is a devilish act to earn money by taking interest, bribes or by cheating.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Almighty Allah says: O human beings!</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Take halal, pure things from whatever you get in this world and do not follow the path of the devil.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">He (the devil) is your exposed enemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">The iba'dat of those is not accepted if their living is earned by the haram income.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">The Prophet (Sm) says: The fire of hell is the real place for the flesh that is nourished by haram food.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">From this lesson we have learnt: i) Halal earning, its introduction, importance and the evil effect of haram earning.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">We will be interested in halal earnings and we will refrain from haram earnings.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Man is a social being.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">He/she cannot live alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">In fact, the nature of human beings is of such kind that they do not want to live alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Inspite of having innumerable pleasures in heaven, Adam (A) got impatient because of his loneliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">In order to remove his loneliness, Bibi Hawa (A) was created as his life-partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">So it is found that human life becomes undynamic if there is no friend or companion.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">In worldly life, no person is free from the influence or contact of friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The great Prophet (Sm) says: A person is influenced by his/her friend's nature and character.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">So assess the person properly whom you are making friends with.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">That is, a person is influenced by his/her friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">So you have to make friends with someone observing the latter's nature and character.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">A person can gain dignity of high status by coming into contact with an honest friend and favourable environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">On the contrary, having unfavourable surroundings and coming into contact with dishonest friends, he/she may be ruined totally.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Giving instructions as to whom you are going to make friends with and who you are going to work with, Almighty Allah says: O believers!</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Be afraid of Allah and be companions of the truthful people (Sura Taobah: 119).</sent>
				<sent id ="428">If you keep company with honest people, you will become honest, and if you keep comapany with dishonest people, there is every possibility of being dishonest.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">A proverb goes that honest company is heavenly, and dishonest company is dangerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">The Prophet (Sm) says, Loneliness is better than a bad companion and having honest companion is better than loneliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Imam Gazzali (R), a great man, said, The person with whom you will make friends, should possess five qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">These are: intelligence, honest nature, not being a sinner, neither a Bidaati nor someone who is attached to this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">1) Intelligence: There is no benefit in making friends with a stupid.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">There is a proverb: An intelligent enemy is better than a foolish friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">2) Honest nature: There is no good in having friendship with someone who is bad by nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">A friend's nature influences greatly the other friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">So one should select friend who have honest nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">3) Not being a sinner: One cannot be safe from the harm caused by one who is not afraid of Almighty Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">His words cannot be relied on.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">One sinner should not be selected as a friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">4) Not being a Bidaati: Bidaat means the bad deed that goes against the Holy Qur'an and Sunnah.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">The man who is engaged in doing things, against the Qur'an and Sunnah, should be abandoned.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">This is because his Bidaat will contaminate his other friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">5) Not being attracted to this world: The person who gives preference to this world than the world hereafter is influenced by his instincts and engages himself/herself in doing sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Making friends with such a man will bring no benefit.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Giving warning about making friends Hazrat Jafar Sadiq (R) said, Do not make friends with five people.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">A liar - Because only fraudulence and deception will be received from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">A foolish - You can expect no benefit from him/her rather you will get harm.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">A coward - He will hand you over to your enemy in time of danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">A sinner - He will sell you for a very small price.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">A miser - He will leave you in time of your dire need.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">It is difficult to recognize who a real friend is.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">A deadly enemy often comes in disguise of a friend and causes serious harm.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">The satan Iblis also came to Adam (A) and Hawa (A) in disguise of a friend and caused great mischief to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">We must be careful about selecting friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">By selecting good friends we must pave the way to peace and prosperity in the life here and hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">What is cleanliness?</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Cleanliness means being clean, neat and pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">And cleanliness of body, mind and place maintained through some special procedures is called Taharat or purity.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">For performing the most important iba'dat, i.e. salat, it is essential that the body, dress and place be clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Cleanliness or purity is part of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Allah is pure (holy).</sent>
				<sent id ="463">He likes purity and cleanliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Those who keep themselves clean and pure, are loved by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">Almighty Allah also loves them.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">It is said in the Holy Qur'an: Meaning: Allah loves those who are holy.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">We do various types of work.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Our hands, feet, body and clothes become dirty and dusty.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Our body sweats and produces unpleasant smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">People hate it.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">We eat through the mouth, then the teeth get dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">If we do not clean our mouth and teeth, bad smell comes out of the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">People dislike it and teeth fall out before due time.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">To keep our teeth clean we should brush them before our ablutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">The Prophet (Sm) says: I would order my followers to brush their teeth before ablutions if it was not troublesome to them Some people keep their nails and hair long.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">These look ugly, If the nail is long, it contains dirt and that goes into the stomach with food and causes indigestion.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">So nails should be cut and kept clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">Hair should be kept tidy.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">One day seeing a man with untidy hair the Prophet (Sm) said: Didn't this man get anything to make his hair tidy?</sent>
				<sent id ="480">Some people do not make themselves clean properly after coming out of the lavatory and urinal.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">Various types of diseases attack the body if it is kept unclean and dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">The body should be cleaned properly after excretion.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">Taking bath once and performing ablutions five times a day, make the body clean and pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">These make the mind fresh and jolly.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">People get inspired to do work.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">We do various types of work.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">Our clothes get dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">If these dirty clothes are worn, the body becomes sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">Various types of diseases attack.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">Also you cannot be in good mood while you are in dirty dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">People dislike dirty dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">Giving instructions to keep dresses clean, Allah says: Keep your dresses clean and neat.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">The Prophet (Sm) always used to wear clean clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">Keeping the clothes clean is as important as keeping the body clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Salat cannot be performed with unclean body, so it cannot also be done wearing unclean clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">We keep our classroom, school compounds, houses, roads, play grounds dirty and unclean.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">We throw dirty sweepings and rubbish here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">So we do with cough, saliva or excretion.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">These make our environment dirty and destroy it.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Dirty environment is the depot of so many diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">It spreads deseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">It makes our life miserable.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">For perfect salat, environment also should be pure like the pure body and pure dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">If the environment is not clean, it becomes impossible to keep our body and dress clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">It is really astonishing that our crowded places like roads, bus stations, railway stations, ferryghats etc. are kept so dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">At this, at any moment our body and dress can be dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">The enviornment is becoming polluted all the time from there.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">If we are conscious about our environment, we can get rid of many diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Water is an important element of our environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">Pure water is essential for cleaning the body and clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">So we must take care not to pollute water and make it dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">We sometimes throw dirt and excretion in the water which people drink and use for cleaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">Do we ever think how harmful and unjust it is?</sent>
				<sent id ="514">From now we will try to keep our body, clothes and environment pure, clean, neat and unpolluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">We shall not excrete in clean water.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">We shall not throw dirt in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">1) Introdution of cleanliness; 2) Improtance of cleanliness; 3) The necessity of keeping the body, clothes and environment clean; 4) The bad effects of not keeping environment clean; 5) The bad effects of not keeping water clean;</sent>
				<sent id ="518">We must be careful about keeping our body, clothes and environment clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">A series of topics are presented below relating to Akhlaq-e-Zameemah or denounceable behaviour and bad character.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">Cheating means to deceive others, to breach promises, to adulterate things, to conceal ill qualities of things and commodities, to circulate false notes of currency, to give less in weight, to sell things of lower quality as things of higher quality mixing with them, to detain the milk in the breast of a cow before selling it (which is ready for sale), to spoil other's due share by giving false promises etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">all these acts include cheating.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">People cheat others not only in business purpose but also in other socio- economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">In Islamic point of view, cheating is a most heinous act against humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">It is equivalent to lying.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">Cheating is as denounceable as lying.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">It is an anti-social crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">The Prophet (Sm) says about this: Meaning: The person who cheats does not belong to our (Muslim) community.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">In Islam, there are clear principles and provisions about business and trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">It is clearly stated in Islam that whatever you do in life there is no scope of deception and cheating.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">Islam never admits the mixing of truth with falsehood.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">It is declared in the Holy Qur'an: Meaning: You do not mix falsehood with truth and do not conceal facts knowingly. .</sent>
				<sent id ="532">The Prophet (Sm) says about concealing adulteration of goods: The man who sells adulterated goods and does not tell the buyer about it, will always be hated by Allah and the angels will always curse him.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">He will not be excused on the ground that the buyer saw the commodity and bought it.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">Because it was his duty to inform the buyer of the pros and cons of his commodity.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">By concealing the fault of the thing he has got continuous hatred of Allah and continuous curse of the angels.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">In fact, earnings procured by deception are Haram (impure) and the body built with food earned by Haram earning will be thrown into hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">On the contrary, one can win this satisfaction of Allah by doing honest business.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Honourable place in heaven can be achieved by this.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">About it the Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: Trustworthy, truthful Muslim traders will be with the martyrs in the day of the final judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">On the contrary, cheating is the habit of the Munafiqs.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">And the Munafiqs will be placed in the lowest stage of hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">As the cheat is cursed by Allah, he has no honourable place in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">Nobody believes and loves him.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">Cheating is fully contradictory to leading Islamic life with Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">A Muttaqi can never adopt the means of deception.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">We also should try to be free from all types of deception and promise to live a life full of Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">We have a tendency to discuss the faults of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">In absence of one, we do scandalling and geebat of one.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">To speak ill of one in one's absence is called 'geebat'.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">That is, to speak such ill of other in his absence as he may be hurt if he hears it.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">Man is a social being.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">To live peacefully in society we must have some good qualities, such as having love, respect, sympathy and kindness for one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">But speaking ill of others, spreading slander jealousy and malice etc. are bad qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">They destroy the peaceful environment of our society.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">We often sit idle.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">We do not have any work to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">At that time we criticize others unnecessarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">We speak ill of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">We discuss the faults of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">Those who are good people express the merits of others, not their demerits.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">Those who are bad themselves think that others are bad too.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">They do not see the virtues of others and always try to find faults with them and speak ill of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">As geebat destroys social peace, so it is haram (prohibited) in the Islamic Shariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">As per Islamic teachings, to eat the flesh of own dead brother is heinous.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">Like this, geebat is a heinous and hateful act.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">In this respect, Allah says: Meaning: Do not do geebat to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">Do anyone of you like to eat the flesh of your dead brother?</sent>
				<sent id ="568">No. you do not.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">Spreading others faults and scandals and speaking ill of others behind their back are called slander.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Slander means blaming or defaming someone.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">Slander creates enmity among people and destroys peace in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">He who speaks ill of others is believed by none and nobody loves him.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">Speaking ill of one to others destroys mutual relationship and creates disputes.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">As slandering is a hateful act in society, it is considered a hateful act to Allah also.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">Allah, the Great, has seriously prohibited this saying: Meaning: Do not go to find fault with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">About the consequence of slander the great Prophet (Sm) says: Slanderer will not be placed in heaven (Bukhari and Muslim).</sent>
				<sent id ="577">He also says: Do not go to find fault with others, do not spy on others, do not quarrel among yourselves, do not cherish envy and malice for others, do not hate one another and do not play any trick for doing harm to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">Try to become a real servant of Allah and be brothers to one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">(Bukhari and Muslim) One day, getting on the Mimber, the Prophet (Sm) spoke loudly: Oh people!</sent>
				<sent id ="580">Among you there are some persons, who have accepted Islam orally but it has not entered into their hearts.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">You do not inflict pain on any Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">Do not speak ill of them and do not go to find fault with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">Because Allah will search out the faults of that person who goes to find fault with his Muslim brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">And Allah will disgrace the person whose faults He detects even if he stays in his own house.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">We live in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">In a society respect, sympathy, good relationship and love towards others make social life peaceful and pleasant.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">On the other hand, envy, malice and quarrels among us make life poisonous.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">For this, our social life becomes miserable.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">Of the bad aspects of human character, envy and malice are the most harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">Pride, jealousy, ill-will, to do harm to others, enmity are intermingled with envy and malice.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">Thinking one's ownself to be great and hating others, having feelings of enmity towards others, and wishing harm to others are called envy and malice.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">An envious person cannot tolerate any good of other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">This type of behaviour is quite contradictory to Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">The great Prophet (Sm) says: Good wishes and good will among one another is Deen.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">A malignant person always behaves against this great preaching and destroys the main spirit of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="596">Giving warning against the fatal effect of malice and envy the Prophet (Sm) says: Beware of envy.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">Because envy devours your good deeds as fire devours dry timber.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">From this Hadith of the Prophet (Sm) it can be realized how much harmful envy and malice is for Deen Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">The Prophet (Sm) also says: The destructive diseases of your forefathers, hatred and envy are crawling towards you.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">I am not talking about shaving hair, I am talking about the destruction of your Deen.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">Islam is a peaceful, disciplined system of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">In Islam, there are unity, fraternity, equality, friendship, generosity and tolerance.</sent>
				<sent id ="603">There is no room for disturbance, disorder and dispute or quarrel in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">In rules and regulations customs and rituals of Islam, there exist the teachings of discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">In the performing of salat in jamat strict discipline is taught.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">People have to stand behind the Imam in rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">In Ruku and Sijdah, in getting up and sitting down they have to follow the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">From this, we get the teachings of following the leader.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">There is no disorder in the creation of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">In the domain of nature there prevails strict discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="611">It is absolutely necessary for us to abide by rules and regulations and discipline in all spheres of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">Almighty Allah says: Do not create disorderly situation in this disciplined world.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">He Also says: Do not create disorder in the world, surely Allah does not like the people who create disorder.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">We can realize from the following small verse (Ayat) of the Holy Qur'an how disgraceful quarrel, dispute and indiscipline are.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">Almighty Allah says: Disputes and quarrels are more disgraceful than murder.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">Prosperity or downfall of a nation depends on its maintaning law, order and discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">The Muslim had to pay heavily in the war of Uhud for breaking discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">Rasul (Sm) engaged a platoon of archers numbering fifty in the mountain pass of Uhud under the command of Abdullah Ibn Zubair (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="619">They were ordered not to leave the mountain pass unprotected.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">But the archers left the mountain pass thinking that they had won the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">They did not abide by the order of their leader.</sent>
				<sent id ="622">Seeing the mountain pass unprotected the Kafir Commander-in-chief attacked them from behind.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">The fleeing Kafirs also turned round.</sent>
				<sent id ="624">At this, the course of the battle took the opposite turn.</sent>
				<sent id ="625">In that battle, the Muslims were not defeated but they were in great trouble for the time being and they had to pay for breaking the discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="626">A lot of Sahabis lost their lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="627">We must dissuade ourselves from creating all types of quarrels, disputes and disorders.</sent>
				<sent id ="628">We must also try to dissuade others from doing these.</sent>
				<sent id ="629">We will settle all types of quarrels that arise in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">We must stand against all types of destructive, harmful and evil endeavours in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="631">We must keep ourselves free from all these vices.</sent>
				<sent id ="632">We must build a decent and orderly society.</sent>
				<sent id ="633">Almighty Allah has created human beings as Ashraful Makhlukat (the best of His creations).</sent>
				<sent id ="634">Then He has given them the means of and directions for leading life in a decent way.</sent>
				<sent id ="635">He has made those things Halal for them which are beneficial, pure, good and delicious.</sent>
				<sent id ="636">And He has made those things Haram for them which are impure, distasteful and harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">Almighty Allah says: Take food from those pure things which I have given you for your living.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">The things which are beneficial to human beings should be accepted and those harmful should be rejected.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">In spite of some clear principles about acceptance and rejection laid down by Allah and Allah's Rasul (Sm), some people are allured by the harmful things which have to be rejected and bring destruction upon themselves, their family and society.</sent>
				<sent id ="640">They become slaves of dangerously bad habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="641">Smoking and drug addiction are this type of harmful bad habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="642">In Islamic ideology, all types of smoking are crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="643">Smoking is a waste of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="644">In Islam any type of unnecessary expenditure and wastage of money is prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="645">Almighty Allah called those people who are extravagant the brothers of Satan.</sent>
				<sent id ="646">Allah says: Meaning: Surely the extravagant people are brothers of Satan.</sent>
				<sent id ="647">(Sura Bani Israil: 27) Smoking is not only a waste of money, but also dangerously harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="648">The bad smell of burning tobacco coming from cigarette, churut, bidi and hooka is so irritating that every non-smoker can realize it.</sent>
				<sent id ="649">Saying one's prayers to Allah with bad smell is forbidden.</sent>
				<sent id ="650">The great Prophet (Sm) says: The man who takes stinky things should not go near the mosque (in that state).</sent>
				<sent id ="651">So smoking stands in the way of Allah's accepting one's prayers.</sent>
				<sent id ="652">The bad smell coming out of the mouth of the smokers gives trouble to the Musallis.</sent>
				<sent id ="653">Many times smokers try to manage the money spent on smoking by dishonest earnings.</sent>
				<sent id ="654">Smoking involves a person in committing sin in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="655">The bad habit of smoking makes people addicted, and all types of addictions are Haram (forbidden).</sent>
				<sent id ="656">The Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: All types of intoxicant objects are Haram.</sent>
				<sent id ="657">Addiction to smoking brings ruin to one's family and society.</sent>
				<sent id ="658">The cigaratte wrapped in a clean paper is attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="659">Yet it is full of poisonous necotine.</sent>
				<sent id ="660">Nicotine is so dangerous that if that substance (nicotine) contained in two cigarettes pushed in the body of a healthy person, it will surely cause his/her death.</sent>
				<sent id ="661">The famous physician Ibn Sina said: If the dust, smoke and gas of this world would not enter into lungs of people, they could live thousands of years in healthy state.</sent>
				<sent id ="662">According to the specialists, From a burning cigarette minimum four thousand types of chemicals come out.</sent>
				<sent id ="663">Smoking causes phthisis, bronchities, tooth decay, loss of appetite, gastric ulcer, cancer to the lungs, heart disease etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="664">Cigarette does not burn itself only, also burns others.</sent>
				<sent id ="665">Smoking is not only dangerous for the smoker, it is also fatal for the non-smokers around him.</sent>
				<sent id ="666">The irritating and dirty smoke from the burning tobacco pollutes air, water and in fact, the whole environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="667">If there are non-smokers like women, children and old women in the house of a smoker, they also inhale smoke-poison equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="668">They are susceptible to lung cancer three times more than they would have been under normal condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="669">It is not enough to say that smoking is equivalent to taking poison, rather it is more dangerous than that.</sent>
				<sent id ="670">Because poison is harmful only for the person who takes it.</sent>
				<sent id ="671">But smoking is harmful to the smoker as well as for those who are non-smokers living around him.</sent>
				<sent id ="672">It is also harmful to the smoker's next generation.</sent>
				<sent id ="673">Will-force: Will force can play a vital-role for giving up the habit of smoking.</sent>
				<sent id ="674">The month of Ramadan is a proper time for a Muslim to give up smoking.</sent>
				<sent id ="675">Islamic teachings: It becomes easy to give up smoking if Islamic teachings, rules and regulations are observed properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="676">Social resistance: It is essential for the people who are conscious about society, health and hygiene, to put up a strong resistance against smoking.</sent>
				<sent id ="677">Smoking should be stopped for the welfare of the nearest and dearest ones in the family like sons, daughters, the wife and the old parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="678">Publicity by media: The publicity by media, such as newspaper, radio, television etc. can play an effective role for the prevention of smoking.</sent>
				<sent id ="679">Creating consciousness: It is essential to make people aware of the harmful side- effects of smoking.</sent>
				<sent id ="680">Initiatives of the physicians: Physicians can contribute much to the prohibition of smoking.</sent>
				<sent id ="681">The role of the mosques and the Ulama: The Imams of the mosques and the Alim community can make people conscious of the harmful effects of smoking.</sent>
				<sent id ="682">Drug addiction means addiction or intoxication created by any type of intoxicating drug.</sent>
				<sent id ="683">Introducing intoxicants the great Prophet (Sm) says: Intoxicant is that thing which destroys sensibility and intellect.</sent>
				<sent id ="684">Anything that creates intoxication, causes disorder in the normal brain and abolishes sense and memory.</sent>
				<sent id ="685">About this the Prophet (Sm) says: Anyting that creates intoxication is called intoxicant or drug and all types of intoxicants are Haram (forbidden).</sent>
				<sent id ="686">Whether the drug is natural or chemical, whether it is much or less in quantity, whether it is drunk or eaten or taken in any way, if it creates addiction and lunacy, it is drug, and addiction to it is called drug addiction.</sent>
				<sent id ="687">The things included in drugs are wine, ganza, tari, opium, charash, hashish, bhang, marijuana, heroin, morphine, pathedrin, valium, sonaril, cocain, mendrecs politamin, codain, phensidyl etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="688">Because of the dangerous effects of drugs and the sad consequences of its users, Almighty Allah has vehemently forbidden taking drugs.</sent>
				<sent id ="689">Giving instrucions to the Mumins for keeping themselves away from the clasp of drugs, He said: Meaning: Surely wine, gambling, idolatry and lottery are profane and the acts of the devil.</sent>
				<sent id ="690">So you must keep yourself away from these, so that you can attain success.</sent>
				<sent id ="691">Religious: It is unholy and the act of satan that takes people away from the path of Allah, A drug addicted person will never get entrance into heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="692">The great Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: A drug addicted man will not enter into heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="693">The Prophet (Sm) cursed ten type people who are connected with drug : He/she who extracts juice, who prepares the drug, who drinks it, who makes someone drink, who imports it, whom it is imported to, who sells it, who buys it, who supplies it and (10) who consumes its dividend.</sent>
				<sent id ="694">(Tirmizi) Physical: Drug addiction causes serious harm on the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="695">It destroys digestive power, creates aversion to food.</sent>
				<sent id ="696">Malnutrition takes shelter in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="697">Permanent cough and fatal diseases like tuberculosis are formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="698">Not only that, the children also inherit the effects of drug addiction.</sent>
				<sent id ="699">Children become weak and foolish.</sent>
				<sent id ="700">Liver and kidney are destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="701">Mental: Taking drugs diminishes the conscience of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="702">Power of sensation becomes weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="703">Equilibrium is lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="704">According to the physicians and health scientists, its effect remains on the body even after consciousness is gained.</sent>
				<sent id ="705">This may lead a man to madness.</sent>
				<sent id ="706">Drugs never become part of a body or it does not create blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="707">Only a temporary excitement in the blood is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="708">This sudden excitement in the blood sometimes becomes the cause of death too.</sent>
				<sent id ="709">Quarrels, disputes and family conflicts are also created due to drug addiction.</sent>
				<sent id ="710">If a person, involved in important responsibilities of the state and becomes drug addicted, then the defensive and tactful policies of the state may be handed over to the enemies by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="711">Decadence of moral and social values: Drug addiction creates moral and social decadence.</sent>
				<sent id ="712">It makes one mentally distrurbed, restless and indisciplined.</sent>
				<sent id ="713">Most of the heinous crimes like adultery and murder are the consequences of drug addiction.</sent>
				<sent id ="714">Most of the accidents of vehicles take place due to drug addicted drivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="715">The Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: Drug are the root of all immoral acts and obscenity.</sent>
				<sent id ="716">Drug addiction is the main instrument that can destroy the youth-power who are the hopes and aspirations and the valuable asset of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="717">Financial: Drug addition brings about a serious waste of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="718">A drug addict needs a lot of money everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="719">This unnecessary expenditure brings endless sufferings for the family and society.</sent>
				<sent id ="720">A drug addict is compelled to spend money on drugs.</sent>
				<sent id ="721">He makes social life miserable by spending money from his family-members as well as from the people in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="722">He creates panic, terror and disorder everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="723">Strict rules should be formulated for the remedy and prevention of drug addiction.</sent>
				<sent id ="724">Of course, there are strict laws in Islam in this respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="725">It can be prevented strictly imposing anti-drug laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="726">Its remedy is possible if people are made aware of and follow the Islamic rules and regulations.</sent>
				<sent id ="727">Those who are directly involved in the preparation, circulation and supply of drugs, should refrain from doing this heinous work for the interest of the nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="728">It should be the duty of the parents to acquaint their children with the harmful effect of drugs, make them careful about selecting friends and keep them away from dishonest companions.</sent>
				<sent id ="729">It is also their duty to be close to each other through love and affection and to keep the family ties firm.</sent>
				<sent id ="730">Teachers can try to dissuade their students from taking drug by giving orders and advice and also by their own behaviour and character.</sent>
				<sent id ="731">The Imams of the mosques and the Alim community can explain its demerits by religious preaching and advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="732">Social leaders and volunteers can greatly contribute to preventing this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="733">The Government can prevent it by passing laws, enforcing them strictly and giving examplary punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="734">(10) The law enforcement agencies should be more active in this respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="735">All sources of its production, supply and expansion of drugs should strictly be stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="736">We must keep ourselves and society free from this bad habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="737">We must promise to make our life sound and healthy.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
