<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>9-islam-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:06.834</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">418</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">6267</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1623</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">difficult</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t115">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Allah Ta'ala has created us.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Allah has afforded us innumerable gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">We are Allah's slaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">As the slaves of Allah whatever we do with the hope to please Him, following the instructions of the Prophet (Sm), is called Iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In the Qur'anul Karim Allah says: Meaning: I have created Jinn and mankind for My Iba'dat only.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Iba'dat means to show loyalty, to abide by the orders and prohibitions given by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The main target of iba'dat is to achieve the pleasure of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">So for attaining the pleasure of Allah whatever good deed we perform is iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">That is to say, all the activities performed according to the directions given by Almighty Allah and Allah's Prophet (Sm) are regarded as iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Allah and Allah's Prophet (Sm) have taught us how to perform iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">About this Almighty Allah says: Meaning: Be submissive to Allah and His Prophet (Sm) and if you turn away from it, then listen, Allah does not like the Kafirs or unbelievers (Sura Imran:32)</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The main theme of this Ayat is that the path directed by Allah and Allah's Prophet (Sm) is the basis of iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">So we will be able to achieve the satisfaction of Allah and Allah's Prophet (Sm) by properly performing the deeds directed by Allah and Allah's Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Human beings are created for performing iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">And other living things and beings are created for the welfare of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Man has to abide by the orders of Allah and perform the responsibility of Allah's Khilafat.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Iba'dat does not mean simple prayer only.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">All the activities done according to the directions of Allah are iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">About it Allah says : Meaning: After performing Salat you spread yourselves on the earth, try to acquire the favour of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">And remember Allah so much so that you can be successful.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The real theme of this Ayat (verse) is that discharging the responsiblities of this world after performing properly the activities ordered by Allah is equivalent to iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Allah will reward us if we abide by the rules of Allah and Allah's Prophet (Sm) and perform our worldly duties properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Then we will get peace in this world and in the world hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Almighty Allah has sent human beings as Allah's representatives to this world for the performance of only His iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">We perform His iba'dat to get His satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Allah has directed how we ought to perform iba'dat and what work we have to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">In our daily life the iba'dats we do for the satisfaction of Allah are of two phases.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The first phase is fixed only for Almighty Allah, such as salat, saum etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">We must admit that without the Creator the existence of this world would not be possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Allah is one and unique.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Allah has no share-holder.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Allah creates everything, destroys everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">We are Allah's servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Our life and death, food, sleep are all in the hand of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Allah wants Allah's servants to admit and comply with all these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Almighty Allah declared in the Holy Qur'an: I have created Jinn and Mankind for the purpose that they will do only My Iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">1) To admit the sovereignty and authority of Allah in our whole life.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">2) To abide by the orders of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">3) To submit oneself wholly to the will of Allah and expect His favour in all circumstances.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">We have to perform the above things in our personal, family, social, political, economic and in all other spheres of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">We have to do all our works according to the dictates of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Only then the rights of Allah will be established and we will be rewarded by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">We live in society together with our parents, relatives and neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">We help each other in our weal and woe, in sorrows and distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">This mutual help and sympathy is called Haqqaul Ibad or the rights of the servants of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">About the rights of the servants of Allah, Prophet (Sm) says: Surely your provider has rights over you, your wife has rights over your body, your children have rights over you.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">So give the rights of those who have rights over you.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">From the beginning to the end of Sura Nisa of the Qur'anul Karim the rights of one human being over another human being have been described.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Almighty Allah has ordered people to observe their rights and duties towards other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Sometimes these rights and do their duties are made Farz (compulsory).</sent>
				<sent id ="51">He who will abandon or deny them, will face harsh punishment in the day of the final judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Haq or rights of people over people has got eight categories.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Among them there are some rights which must be observed in any circumstances.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">These are Farz.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">There are other rights which should be observed according to the situations and some others are ordinary rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The best way of the expression of submission to Allah Ta'ala is Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The servants of Allah can express their heartiest loyaty to Him through Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Salat is a kind of prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In Salat the servants of Allah express their dua or prayer to Allah, and that is why, it is called Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Islam is based on five Rukons or pillars.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">These five pillars are: Kalima, Salat, Zakat, Saum and Hajj.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Salat is the second pillar of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">It is next to Kalima.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The performance of salat five times a day inspires people to stand firm about the rules and regulations of life based on the directions of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">This salat makes them aware of their mistakes and errors.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It inspires them every moment to abide by the rules and laws of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">It is said that salat should be established in congregation, not alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Meaning: Perform your Ruku with the assembled people.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">That is, establish salat together with other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The Prophet (Sm) says: If the salat is performed in congregation, you will get the sawab twenty seven times more.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Salat leads people onto the honest path.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Allah says: Meaning: Surely Salat keeps people away from vulgarity and evil doings.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Huzur Akram (Sm) says: If someone performs Salat whole heartedly, that salat would become light for him/her in the day of judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">One day the Prophet (Sm) said to the followers: If a river flows by the side of someone's house, and if he/she takes bath everyday in that river, will there be any dirt in his/her body?</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The Sahabis said in reply: It will not be, oh Prophet (Sm) of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Then the Prophet (Sm) said: Like this, if anybody performs salat five times a day, all his/her sins and crimes will be driven away.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The performer of salat becomes sinless.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Salat differentiates between Iman and Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Without approved reasons of Shariat Salat cannot be abandoned in any circumstances.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Salat strengthens Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Through salat nearness to Allah can be achieved quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">It keeps human mind and body away from all types of sins and immoral activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">When a person performs salat he/she prays to Allah for keeping him/her away from all kinds of sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Allah forgives the person who performs salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Performance of salat not only uplifts the soul, it has great importance socially.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">If the Muslims perform salat in congregation they get a chance to meet together five times a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">As a result, they can enquire about one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Mutual love and affection develop among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">In congregation, people have to stand side by side.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In this way, they get from salat the lesson of doing work together.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Ruku and Sijdah have to be performed in salat as per procedures.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">It gives the lesson of being disciplined.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">We will perform salat regularly and make life happy and beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Allah Ta'ala has given us wealth for our livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">All men do not possess equal wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Some have less and some have more.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Allah Ta'ala has determined the share of the poor in the wealth of the rich.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The system of Zakat has been set up with a view to helping the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Zakat literally means purity, clarity and rectification.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">In the terminology of Shariat, a fixed part of the wealth of a Muslim is to be given at the end of every year to the sectors determined by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">If Zakat is paid, wealth becomes purified.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Zakat is one of the five pillars of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Payment of Zakat is Farz.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">In respect of importance Zakat is next to Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">About Zakat it is said in the Holy Qur'an: Meaning: Establish Salat and pay Zakat (Sura An Noor-5) The Prophet (Sm) says about this:</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Those for whom Zakat is Farz, will be severely punished by Allah in the life hereafter if they do not pay it.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In fact, no Muslim can remain a real Muslim unless he/she pays Zakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Almighty says: Destruction of the Mushriks is inevitable, because they do not pay Zakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">So, not to pay Zakat is the act of the Mushriks.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Zakat is one of the pillars of economy establisthed by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">To deny Zakat is like denying Allah and Allah's Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="112">According to Islamic law, the person who is able to pay Zakat, must pay it.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddiq (R), the first Caliph of Islam, fought against the persons who denied Zakat in the same way as he fought against Kafirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He considered the man who denies to pay Zakat as Murtad (one deviated from Islam).</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The main aim of paying Zakat is to change the condition of the poor so that they can gain financial solvency and have no want.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">A lot of poor people can be provided with the work by collecting Zakat in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">If we can provide work to the unemployed poor people by developing small cottage indurstries, one day there will be no needy people in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">As a result, peace and order will come back in the country, If Zakat is paid regularly, there will be no distinction between the rich and the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">So the rich must pay their Zakat duly.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Saum means to refrain from doing something.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In the Islamic terminolgy refraining from taking food and satisfying sexual appetites from dawn to dusk for the satisfaction of Allah is called Saum.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Saum is Farz for every adult Muslim man or woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">About this it has been declared in the Holy Qur'an:</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Meaning: Saum is made Farz for you, as it was Farz for the previous Ummat, so that you can acquire Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">In a Hadith-e-Qudsi, it is narrated that Allah says: Meaning: Saum is only for Me, I Myself will pay for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The importance of Saum and its benefits are innumerable.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The Sawab of Saum is very great.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The person who fasts is rewarded with innumerable virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The great Prophet (Sm) says: The virtue of all good deeds will be from ten times to seven hundred times but as Saum is only for Allah, He Himself will reward for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">A man observing fasting is able to control all his bad instincts.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The Prophet (Sm) says: Saum is like a shield for the believers.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Saum is a fundamental Farz (compulsory) duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">If any one denies it, he/she becomes a Kafir (infidel).</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The month of Ramadan is a month of patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Through the observance of Saum for one month, the patience a servant of Allah is tested.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Being pleased, Allah will place Allah's fasting servant in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The Prophet (Sm) says: Ramadan is a month of taking patience and the return of patience is heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">1) Sympathy: Greneral people are apt to enjoy life.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">They want to utilize their wealth for their own benefits only.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The rich people can never feel the pangs of hunger and thirst, want and scarcity.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">As Saum is Farz for both the rich and the poor, the rich can realize the suffering of hunger.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">As a result, they become sympathetic with the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">2) Removal of bad habits: There are some detestable habits in human beings like jealousy, malice and tendency to speak ill of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">But a person who observes Saum, tries to give up these bad habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">As a result peace and order prevail in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">3) Strengthening social relationship: While observing Saum, people call each other for taking Sahri and Iftar (the meal taken in the last falf of the night and the food taken breaking fast) for getting Sawab (reward).</sent>
				<sent id ="147">They send Iftar to one another's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Thus the social relationship is strengthened.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Besides all these, there is unlimited economic importance in observing Saum.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">While observing Saum the fasting people give away ample alms for getting extra reward from Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Thus the financial scarcity of the poor is reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">So for getting nearness to Allah and considering its social importance everyone should observe Saum.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">We will observe Saum sincerely.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Hajj means to determine or desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">In the Islamic terminology, Hajj means to perform certain functions directed by Allah and His Rasul (Sm) in the holy Ka'ba and at some other particular places on some particular days.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Hajj is the fifth Rukon of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Hajj is Farz for those rich Muslims who have got both financial and physical capacity to go to holy Makka and perform Hajj.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Hajj is not Farz for the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Hajj is Farz only once in life-time.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">In the Holy Qur'an, a complete Sura on Hajj is revealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Not only this, in some other parts of the Qur'an there are Ayats about Hajj.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Almighty Allah says: Meaning: It is a compulsory duty of a person to perform Hajj in the Baitullah Sharif for Allah, and it is for those who have ability to go there.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">In a Hadith, it is described that the Prophet (Sm) says: The person who performs Hajj for the satisfaction of Allah and does not take part in any unjust action or act of sin, will return home so innocent as if he/she has just come out of his/her mother's womb.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Hajj is Farz for the rich Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">If anyone denies it, he/she will become a Kafir (infidel).</sent>
				<sent id ="166">A performer of Hajj is very dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Allah forgives all his/her crimes.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The Prophet (Sm) says: As water washes away all dirts, so Hajj washes away all impurity from the human mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Through Hajj universal Muslim fraternity is expressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Muslims of all parts of the world gather together in this place of unity.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Hajj is the Muslims world gathering.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Millions of Muslims from different parts of the world having different languages, features, complexions take part in celebrating Hajj, wearing the same dress and observing the same procedure.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Through Hajj the human mind is relieved of miserliness and lavishness.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">And for being economical, poverty is removed and economic balance is maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Our society honours the performers of Hajj (Hajjis) very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Ordinary people regard the Hajjis for their Tawaf of the House of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">To comply with the orders of Allah and to get blessings of Allah, all the rich Muslims should perform Hajj as early as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Jiha'd means hard labour, effort and perseverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">In the Islamic terminology, to make the Deen (Islam) of Allah victorious, trying hard using physical, mental, economic and intellectual strengths against all unfavourable forces is called Jiha'd.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">To fight against all types of antiforces for establishing Islam perfectly is a great iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">This type of Jiha'd is done only to uplift the religion (Deen) of Allah to the highest place.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Jiha'd can never be done for any worldly purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Allah Ta'ala says: Meaning: The people having Iman (believers) fight on the path of Allah and the Kafirs fight on the path of (Satan) (Sura An-Nisa-76).</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The Prophet (Sm) says: The man who fights to establish the Deen (religion) of Allah is on the path of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Those who fight on the path of Allah are called Mujahids.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Those who win Jiha'd are called Gazi.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Those who sacrifice their lives are called Shahid.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">To Allah the dignity of the Shahids is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">They are immortal.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">About the Shahids Almighty Allah says, Those who die on the path of Allah, do not call them dead, rather they are alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The permanent enemies of Islam are the Kafirs, the Mushriks, the Munafiqs, the Jews etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">They always try to wipe away Islam from this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">To fight openly against these forces who are against Allah, is called open Jiha'd.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Allah Ta'ala says: O Prophet! Fight against the Kafirs and the Munafiqs and be harsh against them .</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Iblis (Satan) and Nafs (evil-tendency) are deadly enemies to human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Falling into the trap of Satan and due to the pressure of evil-tendencies a person engages himself/herself in sinful acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">To fight against these deadly enemies, Iblis and evil-tendencies (Nafs), is called Secret Jiha'd.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">It is difficult to suppress evil tendencies.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">So to fight against evil tendencies is called a great Jiha'd.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">If evil-tendencies and Satan can be suppressed, the path to heaven will be smoother.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The Prophet (Sm) says: Fighting against Nafs or evil-tendencies is called the greatest Jiha'd.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">It is the holy duty of every Muslim to do Jiha'd to establish the Deen of Allah as well as to maintain peace and order in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">It is an essential duty of everyone to sacrifice their life and property to fight against the enemies of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">We will follow the path of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">We will try to resist the irreligious people.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Allah Ta'ala has created us.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He controls everything about human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Because of parents, human beings come to this beautiful world.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Parents are our nearest and dearest ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">With infinite love, sympathy and affection they rear their children.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">There is no limit of their sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">When a child is born, it remains very helpless.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">At that time parents rear the child with great fondness and care fulfilling all its needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">So children's responsibilities and duties towards their parents are next to iba'dat to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Everybody should take care so that the parents can lead their lives in peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">We should not do any thing or utter any word that might hurt them.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Especially when they become old, weak and cannot earn and consequently become dependent upon their children, they should be taken care of more.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">For this, the duties and responsibilities of the children towards their parents are described with great importance in the Holy Qur'an.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">About this it is said in the Holy Qur'an: Your Provider has ordered that you should not offer your Iba'dat to anyone except Him and that you should behave well with your parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">If one of them or both become old, do not utter a single word of annoyance in their presence.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Do not give them any hint that you are in trouble because of them and do not talk to them in a threatening tone.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Rather talk to them respectfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Stretch your helpful hands towards them with sympathy.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Devote yourself to their service.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">In the Holy Qur'an it is said: Oh Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="226">In my childhood my parents reared me with much love and care.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Show that love and care to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">To perform the Iba'dat of Allah, not to do any shirk and behave well with the parents are equally important for man and woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">About it Almighty Allah says: Meaning: You perform the iba'dat of Allah, do not make anything His share holder (Sharik) and behave well with your parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Satisfaction of the parents is the satisfaction of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">In the Hadith Sharif it is said: Allah is satisfied if parents are satisfied and Allah is dissatisfied if parents are dissatisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">It is the compulsory duty of every son and daughter to abide by the decisions of their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">But if the parents order them to do anything against Islam or give pressure for doing that, in that case children have to refuse to carry out the order of the parents and follow the order of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Even in that case children should not abandon their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Disobedience to parents is an unforgivable crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Allah will not forgive this sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Rather, before giving such a sinner inevitable punishment in the world hereafter, he/she will be punished in this world also.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">About this the Prophet (Sm) says: Almighty Allah forgives all the sins of His servants according to His will.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">But He does not forgive disobedience to parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Rather He punishes such sinners in this worldly life before death.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Both father and mother have their rights on their children.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">But the right of a mother is greater than of a father.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Once a man came to the court (darber) of the Prophet (Sm) and said: Your honour, both my father and mother are alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">I want to serve them.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Whose right I will look after first?</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The Prophet (Sm) replied, Your mother's.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The man again asked, Then?</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The Prophet (Sm) replied, Your mother's.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Third time the man asked the same question.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The Prophet (Sm) said in reply: Your mother's.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">When the same question is asked for the fourth time the Prophet replied: Your father's.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">So it is evident that the right of a mother is greater than that of a father.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">About the right of a mother the Prophet (Sm) said: Meaning: Heaven for a child lies under the feet of its mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">To get peace in the worldly life and to get unlimited happiness in heaven in the world hereafter, one must be submissive to one's parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The total welfare of our worldly life lies in the satisfaction of the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">So under no circumstances parents should be inflicted with pain and it is your duty to always treat them well.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">We will abide by the decisions of our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">We will take care of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Then Allah will be pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">We will get blessings of Allah, and our life will be prosperous.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Worldy attractions confine human life to this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Here there are so many relatives like fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, grandfathers, grandmothers, uncles and aunts and there are many more from the marital side.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">After performing the duty towards parents, these relatives have got the right to get co-operation and well treatment from us.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">In Islamic livelihood there are instructions to observe the rights of these relatives properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">About this it is said in the Holy Qur'an: Meaning: You perform your duty towards your relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Allah has ordered us to behave well with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">It has been emphasized in the Holy Qur'an that one should remain conscious about the rights and duties of one's relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">About it Allah says: Meaning: They are the true religious people who, inspite of their fascination for wealth, give gifts to the relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">About giving gifts to close relatives the Prophet (Sm) says: Two purposes are served if close relatives are given gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">One is to maintain relationship with them and the other is to fulfil the objective of giving gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">So, giving gifts to the people of distant relations without paying any heed to the near relatives is disliked by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Thus the first and foremost duty of a person is to give gifts to the near relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The Prophet (Sm) says about those who break relationship with relatives:</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Meaning: One, who severs relationship with the relatives, will not enter into heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Allah and the Prophet (Sm) have ordered human beings to maintain relationship with the relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Those who do not maintain it, will have to face great disasters.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">They will be deprived of the blessings of Allah here, and they will have to face severe punishment in hell in the life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">So, to get blessings of Allah by escaping Allah's curse, we should do our duties towards our kith and kin.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">But under no circumstance any type of injustice or partiality should be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">So without exceeding the limits dictated by Islam we should try to observe the rights and duties of our relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Rights of neighbours Those who live around us are our neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">They first come forward in our happiness and sorrows, dangers and difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">If there is any trouble or disease, they quickly nurse and take care one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">They help one another if a marraige ceremony or any other function takes place.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Who are the neighbours?</sent>
				<sent id ="286">When asked, the Prophet (Sm) says: Those who live within forty houses in your front and back or your right and left are your neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The Muslim neighbour who has two rights: as a Muslim and as a neighbour.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The Muslim neighbour has only one right: that is, if a neighbour belongs to another religion even then he/she deserves well treatment from you.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">It is a moral duty of every Muslim to live in harmony with the neighbours and behave well with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">We should behave well with the neighbours for the sake of maintaining social peace and order in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Almighty Allah has ordered all to behave well with the neighbours, whatever category they may belong to.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">About those who do not fulfil the rights of the neighbours, Prophet (Sm) says: The person whose neighbours are not safe from his/her oppression and ill- treatment, will not be able to enter heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">It is a heinous crime to inflict pain on neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">If a neighbour does not forgive one for this offence, he/she will lose the right to enter heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">So it is a Kabira Gunah (serious crime).</sent>
				<sent id ="296">If a neighbour asks for help for honest purpose, he/she should be helped.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">If he/she is in want, his/her neighbours should try to remove it as much as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Rasulullah (Sm) says: That man does not have Iman in its true sense who eats to his heart's content and his neighbour is hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">A neighbour deserves well behaviour whether he/she is a Muslim or a non- Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The Muslim saints were very conscious about the rights of their non-Muslim neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">A neighbour of Abu Hanifa (R) was an worshipper of fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">The man was a drunkard.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Drinking wine throughout the night, he would beat drums and disturb the Imam in carrying on his iba'dat and study.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">One day the law and order enforcement authority arrested that neighbour of Iman Sahib and took him away.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">On that night hearing no sound in his house, the Imam Sahib enquired about it and heard that the man had been arrested.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">At this news he was hurt and went to release him.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The Qazi (justice) told the Imam: Sir, he has been arrested because he disturbs you.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Imam Sahib said: He is my neighbour.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">I have come to take him to fulfil the right of my neighbour.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">At last the Imam stood bail for him and he was released.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">He became a good man being moved by the behaviour of the Imam Sahib.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Even if a neighbour is a non-Muslim, his/her rights should be properly observed.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">We will behave well with our neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">We will be sharers in their sorrows and sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Then our life will be beautiful and peaceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">In a society the rich have their duties towards the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Those who have become unsuccesful in their struggle of life, those who are suffering from extreme poverty, those who are in distress, have their rights on the wealth of the rich Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">In the Qur'an and Hadith there is teaching to do good to the poor and the distressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">About this it is said in the Holy Qur'an: Meaning: The needy and the deprived people have rights on their (the rich) wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">It is Islam that for the first time has given great emphasis on helping the orphans and the penniless, helpless and the distressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Giving away gifts to the poor does not decreases, rather increases one's wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">In the Hadith it is described that if a person gives away gifts to the poor which is earned by Halal means, and if the gift is even of the quantity of a date, Almighty Allah will give him/her in return a lot of neki (benefit) amounting to a mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The Prophet (Sm) says: O the Muslims, the best house is that in which there is an orphan and he is treated well, and worst house is that in which there is an orphan but he is badly treated.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Our beloved Prophet (Sm) says: Almighty Allah will give fruit from heaven to a person who gives food to the hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Allah will give sweet drinks in heaven who gives water to the thirsty.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Allah will give dress in heaven to a person who gives clothes to the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">To get peace in the life hereafter by getting nearness of Allah the rights of the distressed and the poor should properly be fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Helping hands should be extended to them when they are in danger and difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">The place of teachers is next to that of parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Teachers are the most respected persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">They mould us as real human beings in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The parents rear the children, but the teachers mould them as perfect men and women.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Children are fond of imitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">So whatever the teacher teaches them, they will learn it.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">A successful teacher teaches us in our childhood what our sphere of activity in life will be.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">The teachers teach the students religious laws, code of behaviour, good manners, modesty, politeness, regularity etc. which students can use in their matured life to attain over all prosperity.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">To respect the teachers in return for their sacrifice for the well-being of the students is equivalent to iba'dat.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">The persons, whose untiring efforts and sacrifice have made us real human beings, have their rights on us. 1) To abide by the orders and prohibitions made by teachers and behave well with them; 2) To convey Salam with respect to the teachers when seen and ask how they are; 3) To listen to and abide by what they teach; 4) To behave with them politely all the time; 5) To stand up to show respect to the teacher as soon as he/she enters the classroom and to ask permission at the time of leaving the classroom; 6) To enquire about the distress and difficulties of the teachers and try to help them as far as possible; 7) Not to do anything that they dislike; 8) Not to be impolite with them under any circumstance.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">We have to remember that the blessing and endeavour of a teacher is the key to our success.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">If a teacher is hurt and curses us, it is not possible to prosper in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">We will respect the teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">We will abide by their advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Then our life will be better, and we will get peace in this world and in the life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Around us we have fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, relatives, neighbours and friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Some of them are older, some are younger.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">The first expectation of the older people is that they will get proper respects and regards from the younger people.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">On the contrary, the younger people also have the right to get love, affection and sympathy from the older.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">About the rights of the older people the Prophet (Sm) says: As the father has rights over his son, so the elder brother has rights over his younger brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">About this the Prophet (Sm) also says: Meaning: The man who is not affectionate towards the younger people and does not show respect to the older people, does not belong to our community.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Through the respectful attitude of the younger towards the older and through love, sympathy and affection of the older towards the younger, a fair society can be built.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">To become a true Muslim the older should be respected and the younger should be shown affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Then real peace will prevail in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">So, according to Islamic ideology, to respect the older and to show affection to the younger is a compulsory duty for everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Children like to imitate others.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Whatever the older people do, children try to imitate that.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">So it is the duty of the older to help the younger to build up noble character and mentality of the younger.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">On the other hand, the younger should abide by the orders and advice of the older.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">In transports the older should be respected.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">While travelling by bus or train the old people should be helped to get in so that they do not get trouble.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Arrangement for their sitting should be made if they keep standing.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">These are not only showing respect to them but also a deed of virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">So to build a nice society, good relationship between the old and the young should be maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Thus we shall respect the older and show affection to the younger.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Employer-employee relationship Allah Ta'ala has created human beings in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Everybody is working to fulfil his/her basic needs, i.e. food, clothes, shelter, education, health, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">The capacity of all human beings is not equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Some are owners, some are labourers.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">That is, everyone works according to his/her capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">But from Islamic point of view, there is no scope of considering any work as of low grade.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">To work for others in return for wages, i.e. to receive the price of labour is not a heinous work at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Our Prophet (Sm) was asked: What type of earning is the best and the purest?</sent>
				<sent id ="372">He told in reply: The earning of a man by his own labour and the profit earned by honest business.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Nobody should feel inferior in adopting any way to get honest earning.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">A labourer should not suffer from inferiority complex, and an employer should not think himself/herself superior.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Basically, capital and labour are essential for the production of goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Without these, the production of goods is not possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">So in the field of production they should be co-operative to one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">One should not think himself/herself superior to the others.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">About the dignity and right of a labourer, the Prophet (Sm) says: Those who earn their living by working for you are your brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Allah has made them subordinate to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">So, those who have such people, should give them such food as they themselves eat and should give them such clothes as they themselves wear.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">They should not be compelled to do the work which is beyond their capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">If they are asked to do such work, they should be given proper co-operation for completing the work.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">It is described in the Hadith that it is oppression if the rich, who are capable, delay in observing the rights of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">The Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: Pay the labourer his wages before his/her sweat is dried up.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Without any reason, you should not make any delay in paying wages.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Thinking that a labourer should get his/her due wages, the Prophet says: Do not engage a labourer in a work before deciding his/her wages.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">If the principles and procedures adopted by Islam for the employer-employee activities are followed, then the employee would not be deprived of his/her wages.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">There will be no misunderstanding between the employer and the employee.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">So for the prosperity of the country and the nation the Islamic guidelines in this regard should be strictly followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Allah has created Adam (A) as the first man and Bibi Hawa (A) as the first woman and his companion.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">He then sent them to this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">So Hazrat Adam (A) and Bibi Hawa (A) are the first man and woman created in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Creation of mankind, male or female, begins from these two persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Before the advent of Islam women were very much neglected.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Even today they are treated as inferior socially in some religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">But in Islam women are given full dignity which is absent in other religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">In Islam, special rights and honour for women have been recognized as mothers, daughters, sisters and wives, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">It is Farz for both male or female to get necessary education.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">It has been proved by the Hadith that women like men have got the right to take part in activities like giving shelter to the distressed, going outside wearing purdah, taking part in congregation in a mosque, doing beneficial and social work, running business, taking part in Jiha'd etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">Maintaining decorum they can do any work they like.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">But they must work maintaining proper purdah.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">It is the religion of Islam that has first given the women sharer of wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">A woman is a sharer of her husband's and father's wealth in addition to her own.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">However, wealthy a woman may be, the responsibility of her maintenance lies on her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Islam has given her right to spend her own wealth according to her own wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">About the rights of women in property, it has been said in the Holy Qur'an: The woman has her share in the abandoned property of her parents and relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">This right whether more or less, can never be curtailed.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">In Islamic point of view, man and woman are complementary to each other, they are not competitors.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">But Almighty Allah has given supremacy of men over women.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Women are the embodiment of motherhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">About the status of a mother the Prophet (Sm) says: Meaning: Heaven for a child lies under the feet of his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">There is a complete Sura named Sura Nisa, in the Holy Quran wherein Almighty Allah has described about the rights of women.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">In the Jahili (dark) age, women were treated like animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">They were sold in the market like commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">If a female child was born, she was regarded as something ominous, and she was buried alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Among all the religions and nations in the world only Islam has given women equal rights and honour with men.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">So, as whole-hearted followers of Islam, we must be careful in observing the rights of women.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
