<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>3-hind-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:54.082</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">369</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2996</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1136</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t19">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Usually people remain busy with their own affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They work for their own comfort and peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">But there are some people who are of different nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">They are not busy with their own affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">They work for the well-being of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">They possess many great qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">They are known to the world as great personalities.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">There are many great personalities in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">These great persons were once children like you.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They showed many good qualities in their childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">You can learn many things from their lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">You can also be great if you follow them.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">If you are great, you will be able to serve others.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Here is the life story of three great saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Vivekananda is a famous name.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">He was a great saint, a great man.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Vivekananda was born on 12 January 1863 in Kolkata.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">His childhood name was Narendra.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The full name was Narendranath Dutta.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">He was the eldest son of Bhuvaneswari Devi and Viswanath Dutta.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Viswanath Dutta was a successful lawyer.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">He was a scholarly person and knew many languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">In his boyhood Narendranath's name was Vireshwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">But everybody called him Biley.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Biley was restless.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">He was very stubborn too.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">He used to do whatever he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He was different to deal with.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He did not care even his elder sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">If they tried to control him, he would run away.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">He smiled and made faces and told them, Get hold of me.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Biley's sisters had nothing to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Biley knew it very well that nobody would come near the dustbin.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">If they went near him they must have a bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Though Biley was a restless boy, he was very brilliant in his studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">He had a very sharp memory.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">If he heard anything only once, he would never forget that.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Like his studies he proved his skill in games, sports and music.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">He was the leader of his playmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">One of his favourite games was the game of Dhyana-Dhyana (meditation) .</sent>
				<sent id ="41">One day something horrible happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Suddenly there entered a snake.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">One of the boys saw it and shouted in fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">All the boys left the place.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">As they were going , they cried, Biley, Biley, run away.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Because of their loud cry the family members rushed there and saw a fearful scene.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Biley was in deep meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">And a poisonous cobra was standing before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The snake spread its hood and was swaying slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Everybody seemed to lose their breath in fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Then what happened to the snake.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">It lowered its hood and went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Biley heard all these after he finished his meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">He was not at all afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Biley was very generous to monks and holymen.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">He loved the poor very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Biley was as brave as truthful.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">One day a teacher was teaching in the class.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Then Biley was talking with some of his classmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">At this the teacher became very angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He asked everybody some questions on the lesson he was teaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Nobody could give the right answer.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">But Biley had extraordinary memory.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He was talking but at the same time listening to the lesson.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">So, he could answer all the questions correctly.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The teacher asked everybody to stand up except Biley.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Biley also stood up with his classmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The teacher told him, You don't have to stand.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">But Biley answered without fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">No, I must stand as I have talked much.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The teacher was very impressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">When he grew up, Biley was named as Narendranath.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">He did brilliant results in the school and college examinations.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">He passed the B.A. final examination.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He studied a lot about law and philosophy.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">While Narendra was a college student, a change came into his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">He began to think, Is there any God?</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Can anybody see God?</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He put this question to many.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">But their answer could not satisfy him.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">One day he met the saint Sri Ramkrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Sri Ramkrishna stayed in the temple of goddess Kali at Dakhineswara.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">There he performed his daily worship (puja) .</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He practised meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">One day Narendra visited him at Dakhineswara.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">He asked Shri Ramkrishna directly, Have you seen God?</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Shri Ramkrishna smiled and answered, Yes I see God as clearly as I see you.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Narendra felt a strange love for Shri Ramkrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">After a long time he found a real guru.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Shri Ramkrishna also got a real disciple.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">At that time, many people came to visit Shri Ramkrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Many spirited young men came to him to listen to his teachings.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Narendranath was one of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Narendranata took the sacred vows of sannyai.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">He was renamed Vivekananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">People also called him Swamijee.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Swami Vivekananda set out to see the unknown places of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">He wished to see the condition of his own country.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">He travelled all over India.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He talked with everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He visited many homes.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He found poverty, illiteracy and harmful he met everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The country was then ruled by the British.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">He felt that India was 78 Hindu Religious Studies going to be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The country should be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The people should be awakened.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">India must be a free land.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Poverty and illiteracy must be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">We should love the people of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Thus we can develop the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">He understood that none could live without self-confidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The self-confidence of his country people must be brought back.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The outside world should know the Indians.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He attended the World Conference on Religions in Chicago.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He gave lectures on Hinduism.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">There he was selected as the best speaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">He was then a young man of about 31 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">He appealed to all to avoid dispute and increase co-operation.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">He advised exchange of thoughts to stop destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He called for unity and peace, not difference of opinion.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">He travelled many countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He delivered a speech in the City of London.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He travelled to France, Italy and Rome as a speaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">In 1901 he came to Dhaka and gave a lecture.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Many foreigners became his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Of them the name of Margaret Noble was famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">She was initiated (accepted as a disciple) by Swamijee and was given the name Nivedita.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">He earned a world victory and came back home.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Countrypeople rejoiced at his victory.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">He advised his countrymen to struggle against injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">He told them to free them from superstition.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">He asked them to be united.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">He explained that strength and courage is religion of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Weakness is a kind of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Freedom is virtue and bondage is sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Those who serve human beings they serve God most.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Love for all living beings is the worship of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">God in various forms stands before your eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Where do you look for Him?</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Those who love the creatures of God Are His greatest servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Later, he established Ramkrishna Math (monastery) at Belur in the district of Howrah.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">This Math was established with the idealogy of service.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It was the main centre of Ramkrishna Math and Ramkrishna Mission.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">He had a lot of work to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Vivekananda had no time to rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">His health was getting worse for hard work.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">On 4 July 1902 he died.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">He was not even 40 when he died.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Here are some messages of Swami Vivekananda: Truth is the basis of all religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Benevolence is virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Oppression is sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">True religion exists in honesty and honest work.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Don't forget that everyone is your brother ?</sent>
				<sent id ="154">They have the same blood as yours.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Let the poor, ignorant, and distressed be your idol.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Your service towards them is the true religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">faith in oneself, faith in God - is the only way of development.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">First you are to gain power.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Religion will come next.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Be strong enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">This is my advice to my young friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Bajitpur is a village in the district of Madaripur.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Formerly Madaripur was a subdivision of Faridpur district.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">His father's name was Vishnucharan and mother's name was Sarada Devi.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Vishnucharan was a worshipper of Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">He worshipped long for Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">One day Shiva told Vishnucharan in a dream, I am satisfied with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Soon I will come as a son to your family.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">On the other hand, Sarada Devi had a strange dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">She saw that Shiva was lying on her lap as her child.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">After this Sarada Devi gave birth to a beautiful child.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">This very child became Swami Pranavananda in future.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The early name of Pranavananda was Jainath.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">After his birth the family had good days.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The child brought good fortune for all.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">So his father Vishnucharan named him Jainath.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">He was born on Wednesday so his nick name was Budho.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">From his childhood Vinod liked meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He used to be in meditation for hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Sometimes he sat under a tree and sometimes in the crematory.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He was very calm and quiet in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He never talked unnecessarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">He never gave any trouble to his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Vinod never quarrelled with his playmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">His school teachers always praised him highly.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Every year he got the prize from school for his good nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Boiled potato and rice was most often Vinod's meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">But he had a strong body.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">No wrestler could defeat him.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">His classmates were surprised.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">How could Vinod build such a strong body, eathing only boiled potato and rice?</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Vinod told them, Excess food and exercise alone cannot make a body strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Temperance and discipline is essential for human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Don't eat too much.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Have your food when you are hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Never sleep by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Fill your mind with holy thoughts.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">If you act accordingly, you will be healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Take great care to behave well.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This can make a man godly.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Vinod was a student of Bajitpur High School.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He was very popular with the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Everybody called him Vinod da.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Vinod organized an association of good boys.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">He was the leader of the association.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Vinod always tried to help the people in their sorrows and sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Vinod never thought of his own affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">He thought about the poor and the helpless.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">He thought about how to free his motherland and its people.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">One day, he told these to the Headmaster Virendra Lal Bhattachariya.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Virendra Lal understood that Vinod was an uncommon boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">He had infinite capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">That must be used properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The Headmaster took him to Gorakhpur in northern India.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">There he visited the place of Yogiraj Swami Gambhiranathjee.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Gambhiranathjee was pleased to see Vinod.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">He said that the boy was a born yogi.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Then Gambhiranathjee initiated accpeted him as his disciple.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Vinod Brahmachari stayed for some highly time at Gorakhpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">After this, he went to Kasidham and stayed for more than a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">There he practised austerity.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Then he came back to Bajitpur, his birthplace.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Again he started practice of austerity.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">He attained success.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">It was the day of Maghi Purnima in That was also the birthday of Vinod.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">While in meditation, he declared a great message.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">This is an age of great awakening.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">This is an age of great co-ordination.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">This is an age of great union.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">This is an age of great deliverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">In 1924, a religious fair namely Ardha Kumbha Mela was held in Prayaga.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">After that, he was renamed Swami Pranavananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Pranavananda dedicated his life for the service of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">His aim was to develop the character of the young men.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">He wanted to unite the people of different sects and religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">For this purpose he established Pranab Math at Bajitpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The Math was the centre of his work.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Both religious programmes and social services would be started from this Math.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">At that time often epidemics broke out in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Devastating storm and flood also occurred.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Many people died.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Many people became shelterless.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Property was destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Pranavananda helped distressed people through his Math.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Hundreds of young workers joined him.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Later most of them became sannyasis (monks).</sent>
				<sent id ="247">First of all Pranavananda selected seven of his followers.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">They were all initiated by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Along with them, he started his religious programmes and service for all.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Welfare of mankind was his vow.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">In 1923, he established Bharat Sevashrama Sangha (service centres).</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Many schools and hostels, hospitals and charitable dispensaries were founded through the sevashrama.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">In most of the holy places of pilgrimage, Bharat Sevashrama had its branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The main duty of the workers of Sevashrama was to help the pilgrims.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">In many countries of the world, Bharat Sevashrama Sangha has been established.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The dedicated workers here always render services to humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Pranavananda said, A country needs honest people for its development.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">And ideal student life can make honest people.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">He put emphasis on building good moral character of the students and the youths.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">He gave his message for the young : You are the children of heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">You have unlimited power within you.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Don't be impatient.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">You are holy, you are pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Swami Pranvananda worked hard all through his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">He dedicated his life for the service of humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">He never took a rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">He never cared for himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">But at certain stage his health broke down.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">He was buried at the Ashrama in Bajitpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">A big temple has been built there.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Every year on the day of Maghi Purnima, a great festival is celebrated there.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Also a big fair is arranged.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Thousands of people attend this fair.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Pranavananda is a great man to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">To devotees he is a Sadguru (a good religious teacher).</sent>
				<sent id ="276">He can achieve anything in the world, who follows this principle only.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Self-confidence, self-dependence, self-dignity are the great resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Energy, inspiration, and perseverance are the best friends of a person.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The first and foremost duty of a student is to build his/her character.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Along with studies building moral character is a must.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Otherwise nothing will be gained.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Khewra is a village in the district of Brahmanbariya.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Earlier. it was in the district of Comilla.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Ma Anandamoyee was born on 30 April 1896 at Khewra.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">The day was Thursday.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Ma Anandamoyee is one of the saints of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Her real name was Nirmala.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">But she is known mostly by the name of Ma Anandamoyee.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Her fathers name was Bipin Bihari Bhattacharya.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Her mother's name was Mokhsmada Sundari.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Bipin Bihari's forefathers lived at Biddyakut.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Khewra was his maternal uncle's home.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Anandomoyee was the second child of her parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Before her birth, her mother Mokhsmada Sundari had seen many dreams.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">She saw gods and goddesses from heaven coming to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">So the devotees believed that Ma Anandomoyee was a goddess sent from heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">She came to this world as the mother of the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">We know that a baby cries as soon as it is born.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">But Anandomoyee did not cry.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">There was a pleasant smile on her face.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">When she heard any Kirtan (a kind of religious songs), her body rocked.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Her eyes became closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Everybody thought that she was sleeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">But this was a state of samadhi (meditation).</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Her father used to chant the name of Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">One day, his daughter asked, Well Father, you chant the sacred name of Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">What is the benefit?</sent>
				<sent id ="308">His father was surprised at the question of his little daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">He gave a simple answer: If one remembers Hari, it brings peace in mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Hari comes to his worshippers.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">When I call you with your name, Nirmala, you come running to meet me.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Hari also comes in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Then whatever you pray for, you will get that.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">After this, Nirmala started singing the name of Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">As a result, heavenly light was reflected on her body.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Ma Anandomoyee was married at a tender age.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Then she was a girl of thirteen.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Her father-in-law's house was Atpara in Bikrampur.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Her husband's name was Ramanimohan Chakravarty.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Ramanimohan was an absent-minded person.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Most people knew him by the name Bholanath.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Then her life of worship and devotion started.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">She practised all sorts of worship/religious activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Sometimes she lost her sense while singing the name of Hari.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">She was given a lot of medical treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">But all was in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">At last everybody realized that Anandomoyee was not an ordinary woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">She was a Devi.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">In the last phase of her life, she almost passed her days without food.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">In this way she overcame hunger and thirst.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Gradually, her name spread out everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">People came to her and was cured of illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">They began to call her Ma-Ma Anandomoyee.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Ma Anandomoyee spent many days of her life at Shahbag in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Her husband Bholanath was then doing some job in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">The Temple of Devi Kali was next to Shahbag.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Ma visited the temple regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">The Temple of Ma Anandomoyee was established near it.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">At present there is a temple of Ma Anandomoyee close to Siddeshwari Kali Mandir.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">This is known as the Adi Mandir of Ma Anandomoyee.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">There is an Asrama at Khewra, her birth place, after her name.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">There is also a school.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">The name of the school is Khewra Anadomoyee High School.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">There are many temples in different places of India named after her.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">She spent her last days of life in India.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">She died on 27 August 1982.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The devotees of Ma Anandomoyee were great in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">To them she appeared in different images.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">To some of her followers, she was Durga.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">To some she was Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">And to some she was Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">She answered everybody's call.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">All of them were her children.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">The religious speech of Ma Anandomoyee is beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">She said that there are many paths and many opinions.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">But there should be a harmony.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">All paths lead to the ultimate truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Her message was liberal.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">All religions and all men were equal to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Holy and pure was her life.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Messages of Ma Anandomoyee for the children : Utter the name of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">That will do good.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Laugh and play.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">If you follow all rules then a little naughtiness can be spared.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Listen to the words of elders and parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Be very careful to your studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">When you wake up in the morning, bow to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Pray to Him: God, I don't know where you are.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Bless me so that I can get you.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
