<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>3-hind-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:53.949</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">183</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">1418</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">539</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t15">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Meaning: May God save us equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">May God give us the light of education equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">May we get the strength of acqireng education equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">May the education we have got be powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">May we avoid malice for others.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Peace be on you, peace be on you, peace be on you.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Meaning: You are the only the power.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">You are the only matter to know.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">You are the one and only shelter of this universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">You are the oldest.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">You have no destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">You are the maintainer of the eternal religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">This is my opinion.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Shornyea trombakey Gouri Narayani nomohoshtutey.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Meaning: You are the person who does well being for everyone and deserves the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">You fulfill the desires of everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">You provide shelter for everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Oh Gouri, Narayani, I salute you.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">We know that God is one and has no paralled.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">He has no shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">But He can take any shape He likes.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">God's power is endless.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">He has many qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">God expresses His qualities through different devas (gods) and devis (goddesses).</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Therefore, devtas (gods and goddesses) are the visible shapes of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">God destroys too.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">God creates as Brahmma.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He nurtures as Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He destroys with the shape of Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">He destroys for the well being of the humankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">All gods and goddesses are different forms of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">We learn about gods and goddesses from the Veda and the Purana.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">the Veda is the main religious book of the Hindus.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The Purana is also our religious book.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Other religious books also speak about gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Gods have supernatural power.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Man cannot do everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">But gods have power to do everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">But this power of gods is the power of God, the Clmighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Gods are luminous.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Their light is the light of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">We worship many gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Our mind becomes pure when we worship them.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">They are also satisfied when we worship them.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">It makes us happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Idols of the devtas are kept in the temples and houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">We should do pronam when we see the idols.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Brahmma - Brahmma is the god of creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">He creates everything in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Brahmma has four faces and four arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">His body is lighted with fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Hangsha (Duck) is his carrier and he sits on the red lotus.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Brahmma loves red flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">This is why we need red flowers for worshipping Brahmma.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Vishnu - Vishnu brings up the whole world and the creatures of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The colour of his body is like the moon light.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Vishnu has four arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Vishnu's carrier is Gorur, a bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">We must call him before any worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">We can worship Vishnu any day but we cannot worship him without the tulsi-leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The worshippers of Vishnu are called Vaishnava.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Shiva - Shiva destroys.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">But he also helps in the well-being of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">His hair is coiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">He wears the tiger-skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The ox is his carrier.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The worshippers of Shiva are called Shaiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Durga - Durga is the goddess of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">She killed the devil, Durgam.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">This is why her name is Durga.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">She removes the distress of humankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Also for this, she is called Durga.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Her body has the colour of the Atoshi flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Her face is as beautiful as a full moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">She has ten arms that carry ten kinds of wapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The lion is her carrier.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">She destroys all evils.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Durga Puja is our great festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">It is held in the season of Autumn.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Kali - Kali is the goddess of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">She destroys all the wicked people.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The colour of her body is black.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Her dangling deep-red tongue is well visible.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Kali has four arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">To punish the wicked, she has a Kharag in her hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">But good people must not be afraid of Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Kali protects good people.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The worshippers of Kali are called Shakta.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Saraswati - Saraswati is the goddess of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">She is snow- white.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">So she is called vina pani.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">She sits on the back of a white duck.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Students especially worship Saraswati and celebrates Saraswati Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Lakshmi - Lakshmi is the goddess of wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">She is white.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Her carrier is an owl.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">She has her seat in every house.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">People worship Lakshmi every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">People read panchali (some sort of religious verses) and worship her, especially on Thursdays.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Kojagori Lakshmi Puja is celebrated in the month of Autumn.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Temples are the houses of gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Idols of gods and goddesses are kept there.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">In temples, people worship and pay homage to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">So, temples are sacred places.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">People keep the images of gods and goddesses there and worshipped them.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Temples are named according to the names of gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">For example are Shiva Temple, Kali Temple, Durga Temple, Krishna Temple, Vishnu temple, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">In Shiva Temple the idol of Shiva is kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">In this way, different idols are kept in different Temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Temples are sacred places.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Our body and soul become pure when we visit any temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Devotees visit temples to worship gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">They also pay homage to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">They express their wishes to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">There are many great temples at different places.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The following is the description of Dhakeshwari Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Dhakeshwari Temple is situated in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">It is a very old temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The idol of Durga is kept there.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">This idol is known as Hindu Religious Studies 21 the goddess Dhakeshwari.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Holy places are places of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Our sins are washed away when we visit any holy place.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">People visit such places also to earn piety.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">There are many holy places for the Hindus.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Some of them are Chandranath, Langolband, Goya, Kanshi, Brindaban, Mathura, Nabadeep, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Chandranath - Cahandranath is a famous holy place in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It is situated in Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The Temple of Chandranath is on the top of a hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Chandranath Dham is its Dhakeshwari Temple other name.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This day is called as Shiv Choturdashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Many people from different places and countries gather there at this fair.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Langalbandh - Langalbandh is another holy place in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">It is situated on the bank of the river Buriganga in Narayanganj.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It is a very old place.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">People from inside and outside the country visit this holy place.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">They take a bath there.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">There are many ancient temples in Langalbandh.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">People come and worship in these temples every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Goya - Goya is situated at Bihar in India.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">This holy place is very famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">It is on the bank of the river Folgu.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Here Pindo (a religious custom people ovserve for dead ancestors) is offered.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Kashi - Kashi is in the northern part of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Venarash is another name of Kashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Temples of Shiva and Annyapurna are famous here.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Mathura - Mathura is also situated in the northern part of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Mathura is the birth place of Sri Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">And so, it is a very famous religious place.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Brindaban - Brindaban is near Mathura.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Sri Krishna spent his childhood here with his playmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Brindaban is also known as Brajadham.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The inhabitants of this place are called Brajabashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Brindaban is a famous sacred place for the Vaishnabas as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The soil and water are pure in any religious place.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">We can wash away our sins by taking a bath in these places.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">We will visit the temples and sacred places.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Heaven is the place of eternal happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Heaven is the abode of all gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Pious people go to heaven after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Heaven is also the place of eternal joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Spring is the only season here.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">There is a beautiful garden here.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Its name is Nandan Kanon.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In this garden a beautiful flower Parijat blooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">There is also a tree named Kalpa Brikhkha in this garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">People get anything they wish from this tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Indra is the king of heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Hell is the place of eternal sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">It is the city of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Sinful people are punished in hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Sinful people are those who do crime in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Sinful people fall in hell after their death.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Jam is the king of hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">This is why hell is called Jamaloy.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">In hell, Chitragupta writes about the good and bad activities of a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">He never spares any sinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Sinners must be punished here for their misdeeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Only religion can save us from the misery of hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Doing right work is religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">On the other hand, doing bad work is irreligion.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">We will be able to go to heaven, if we do good work.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">We will fall in hell, if we do evil work.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">So, we must do good work.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
