<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>3-hind-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:54.108</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">206</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">1540</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">555</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t20">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We do a lot of work.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">But before we do something we have to think which is bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">We should do good work and avoid bad work.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Now the question is which is good work and which is bad work?</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Some work is beneficial for oneself and also for others.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">So the work which is beneficial is good work.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Some works is harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Harmful work is bad work.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">For example, to speak the truth is good work.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">To tell a lie is bad work.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">To serve living beings is good work.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">To give trouble to living beings is bad work.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">We should be able to understand the difference between good and bad work.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The power of differentiating between good and bad is called moral sense.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The study of this moral sense is moral education.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Moral lesson is part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Religion teaches us morality.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">If one follows moral law, then religion is protected.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Morality makes a person with lofty character.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Who is a person with lofty character.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The person who is honest and religious is a person of lofty character.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Such a person wishes to do good to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">A person of principle is a person of lofty character.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">There are many stories and fables with moral lessons.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">They give us moral guidance.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">We will read them.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">We will remember the lessons and follow them in our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Now let us read three moral tales.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">There lived two friends in a village.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">One was pious so people called him Dharmabuddhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The other was corrupt.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">People called him Papbuddhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Once they went abroad for business.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">They made much profit for Dharmabuddhi's honesty and intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Then they started for their own land.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">They almost reached their village.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">They became tired for long travel.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">There was a big bunyan tree near their village.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">They sat under the shade of the bunyan tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">People will come to know about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">They will ask for money.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Our lives may be in danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Dharmabuddhi asked him, Then what shall we do?</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Papbuddhi said, Let us keep some money with us for our family.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">And bury the rest of the money under this tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We will take money from this place in time of our need.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">They buried almost all the money under the bunyan tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Then they returned home.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Some days passed.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Dharmabuddhi needed some money.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">He went to the place together with Papbuddhi to bring money.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">They dug the place and found that there was no money.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Papbuddhi said to Dharmabuddhi, You have taken all the money.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Dharmabuddhi said, I have never committed any sin in my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">I don't tell lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">I haven't taken the money.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">It's you who have taken the money.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Let me have my share.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Both of them quarrelled a lot of the money.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">At last both of them went to the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">They prayed for justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The king listened to them and asked, Do you have any witness?</sent>
				<sent id ="63">They were silent.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">After a while the wicked Papbuddhi answered, Yes, I have a witness.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The bunyan tree will give evidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It will tell who has taken the money.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The king said, All right.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The judgment will be held tomorrow under that bunyan tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Next day the judgement was held.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The king asked the bunyan tree to give evidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The bunyan tree stated that Dharmabuddhi was the criminal.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">He had stolen the money.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Everybody became surprised.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Dharmabuddhi lowered his head in anger and grief.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He then said, I always speak the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">I follow the right way.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">I didn't do such hateful work.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The bunyan tree has told lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">I will burn it.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Dharmabuddhi gathered some dry creepers and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">He set fire to the hollow of the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Then some terrible thing happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The father of Papbuddhi came out from the hollow.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">His whole body was burnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">He was tossing about in pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">He said, I followed the evil plan of my son.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">I have told a lie.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">My son Papbuddhi compelled me to give false evidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">To save my son I took shelter in the hollow of the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Dharmabuddhi is not the real thief.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Papbuddhi is the thief.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">He has stolen the money.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The father of Papbuddhi begged pardon from Dharmabuddhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">A little later he died.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">He begged pardon from the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">But he was 96 Hindu Religious Studies not pardoned.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">He was given death sentence.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">For his mean nature he lost everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">He died even.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Honesty is Truth, Truth wins, Sinful acts always perish.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">There was a dense forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">A deer lived in that forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">There was a crow's nest on a tree in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">A mouse lived in a hole under the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Also there was a beautiful lake in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Crystal clear was its water.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">A tortoise lived in the lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The deer, the crow, the mouse and the tortoise were very close.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">They were very good friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Four friends were passing their days happily.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Do you know what happened one day?</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The deer was caught in a hunter's net.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">What a sad thing!</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The other three friends became very anxious.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">They were thanking how to save their friend, the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The mouse said, Dont worry.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Let us go forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The crow took the mouse on his back and flew in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">They must reach the deer and save him.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The tortoise also didn't remain silent.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">He also reached the place where the deer was trapped.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He found that the crow and the mouse had already reached.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The mouse and the crow saw that the hunter was coming.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The mouse cut the net with his sharp teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The deer became free and ran away swiftly.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He entered the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The deer was saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">But the tortoise was now in danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The hunter saw it.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">He thought that as he missed the deer, he should at least get the tortoise.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">He caught and bound it.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">He went on taking the tortoise with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Again danger and anxiety!</sent>
				<sent id ="134">They must save their friend, the tortoise.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The crow was very clever.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">A plan came into his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He told the deer, The hunter will come across a lake on his way.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">You will lie dying on the bank of the lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">And do you know what I will do then?</sent>
				<sent id ="140">I will peck at your head.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The deer said, Do it gently.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">So that I feel no pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The crow said, I will do it gently.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">You are my friend, aren't you?</sent>
				<sent id ="145">So a crow is pecking at the dead deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">He will keep the tortoise on ground and go to the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Just then the mouse will do his work.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The mouse said, Yes, I understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Then I will cut the rope that tied our friend the tortoise.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The crow said, You are right.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The tortoise will enter the lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">And the deer will run away.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">100 Hindu Religious Studies Everything worked as though tout.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The crow and the mouse saved their friend, the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Again the crow, the mouse and the deer saved their friend, the tortoise.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The danger was over.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The four friends again started to live happily.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">We will remember : To help a friend in need is a virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">There was a big forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">An elephant lived in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The elephant was ferocious.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He broke everything that he got before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">One day he broke a branch of a tree with his trunk.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In that branch, there was a nest of a tuntuni (bird).</sent>
				<sent id ="165">As the branch fell down, the nest was also destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The bird and its chicks cried out.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The mother bird began to lament its great loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">A woodpecker felt sorry for the tuntuni.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He said to the tuntuni that the wicked elephant must be punished.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The tuntuni said, We are very little.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">How can we punish such a giant elephant?</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The woodpecker said, A bee is my friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Let us go to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">They went to the bee.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The bee heard everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Then he said, A frog is my friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">He is very intelligent.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Let's go to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">They three went to the frog.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The frog heard them and thought a little.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He then said, Listen to me carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">You must do exactly what I say.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The tuntuni said, All right.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Now tell us what to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Frog: The bee has a very sweet voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">At noon, the elephant takes a rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The bee then will be humming near him.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The sweet sound will make the elephant drowsy.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He may fall asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Then.. Woodpecker: Then, what?</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Frog: Then you will peck at the elephant's eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">You will make him blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Hindu Religious Studies 103 Bee: And then?</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Frog: The elephant will feel thirsty after some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">He will go in search of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Then it's my duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Tuntuni: What will you do then?</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Frog: Have you seen a big pit in the forest?</sent>
				<sent id ="199">I will go there and start croaking.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Bee: What will happen?</sent>
				<sent id ="201">So he will go forward in search of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Then the elephant will fall into the ditch and die.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">How little were the tuntuni, the woodpecker, the bee and the frog!</sent>
				<sent id ="204">But they could punish the giant elephant.Do you knowt how?</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Because of their unity.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">We will remember : Unity is strength.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
