<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>3-hind-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:54.044</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">277</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2117</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">770</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t18">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Many of you have cats in your home.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Cats have kittens also.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The mother cat suckles the kittens.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">She brings food from a distance and feed the kittens.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The kittens grow up day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Then they become able to do everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">After our birth, our mother nourishes us like the mother cat.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">We live on our mothers milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">During childhood we remain helpless.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">We cannot walk.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">We cannot speak.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">We cannot even have our food.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Our mother then nourishes us, cares for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">She takes us on her lap and makes us sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">A mother's love is like the shade of a bunyan tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">At times of sickness mother nurses her child the whole night.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">If her son goes to a far away place, she waits anxiously.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">None can be compared with a mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">father also helps to bring up his child.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Both father and mother nourish a child and help him/her to grow up.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Parents always wish us well.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">They help us in every work.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">They guide us to follow the right way.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">A grandfather, a grandmother, an uncle and an aunt are also members of our family.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">They also love us and help us to grow up properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Those who are elderly.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">They are respectable.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">We should obey them.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">We will obey the orders of our parents and elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Our hapiness makes them happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Our sorrow makes them unhappy.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">We will never hurt them.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">We will never disobey them.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">As we grow up, we go to school.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">In school, the teachers teach us.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">They love us.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">They give us advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">They wish us happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">So the teachers are also respectable.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">We will show respect to them and listen to their advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Shastra (scripture) says, Shradhaban lavote ganom.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">It means the person who pays respect to others can gain knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Goddess Durga had two sons- Kartik and Ganesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Kartik thought that he loved his mother more than his brother did.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He Hindu Religious Studies 59 took pride in this.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">But Ganesh did not say anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">He always kept silent.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Mother Durga knew their minds.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">One day she called them and said, Who can go round the earth faster?</sent>
				<sent id ="50">I will give my jewelled chain to the winner.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Kartik became very happy when he heard this.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">He looked cynically at Ganesh and smiled silently.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">This is because his carriage was a peacock.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">On the other hand, the carriage of Ganesh was a rat.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Kartik started his journery.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">But Ganesh had no anxiety.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">He knew that Durga is the mother of the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">There can be no universe other than one's mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">He folded his hands and went round his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">He bowed to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">At this Mother Durga became very pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">She decorated Ganesh with her jewelled chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Sometimes we say that we must do this or that.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It is called making a promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">It is also called swearing or giving ones word.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">We also make a promise when we say, I will always speak the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">I will never tell any lie, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">If we make any promise, we should keep it.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">To keep a promise is part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">We can also prosper in life, if we keep our promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">It makes us worthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Thus we can develop humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Always promise: I will always do the right thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">I will never do anything bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Then keep this promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">It makes life disciplined.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">To keep a promise is a nice good quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">To be disciplined is also a virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">A disciplined man succeeds everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">We should acquire this quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">For this, you have always keep your word.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Here is an old story about a king.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">See how he kept his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">This story is taken from a religious book.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Many many years ago, there was a religious king.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">His name was Harish Chandra.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He had a habit of donating a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">He was very careful in keeping his promise as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">His wife's name was Shaiba.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">King Harish Chandra and Queen Shaibya had only one son.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">His name was Rohitashma.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">During the period of Harish Chandra, there was a famous hrishi.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">His name was Bishwamitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">He used to live in forests and worship God.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">One day he wanted to test Harish Chandra's faith in religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">So, he went to King Harish Chandra's capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">He told him, Please give me something.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Harish Chandra : Please tell me what you want.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Bishwamitra : Will you give me anything I want?</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Harish Chandra : I promise that I willstishy your demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Bishwamitra : Then give me your kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Harish Chandra : Ok.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">From now on my kingdom is yours.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Saying so, Harish Chandra gave his kingdom to Bishwamitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Bishwamitra : But where is my fee?</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Harish Chandra : Don't worry.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">I will give you the coins immediately from the treasury.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Bishwamitra : You have given me the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">So, you have no right to take any money from the treasury now.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">That treasury is no more yours.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Now it is my treasury.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Harish Chandra got the point.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He took seven days to fulfill his pledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Then he left his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Queen Shaibya and Prince Rohitashma accompanied him.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">During this time, Harish Chandra tried his best to collect the money.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">But he failed.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Finding no alternative, Queen Shaibya took a job as a maid in a Brahmin's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Rohitashma went with her.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Harish Chandra also took a job under a chandal (member of a lower class).</sent>
				<sent id ="121">His job was to burn dead bodies at a crematory.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Thus he earned seven thousand gold coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He paid the money to the Muni and in this way he kept his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">But that was not the end of the story.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">One day Rohitashma went to a garden for picking flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Suddenly a snake bit him.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Shaibya took him to a crematory for funeral.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">She was wailing there.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It was the crematory where Harish Chandra used to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Harish Chandra recognised his wife and son.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">He and his wife became stricken with grief at the loss of their only son.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">So, both of them decided to burn themselves with the dead body of their son.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">At that time Hrishi Biswamitra arrived there.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">He was impressed by Harish Chandra's determination to keep his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Suddenly there were signs of life in Rohitashma's dead body.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">He became alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Bishwamitra told Harish Chandra, You are a truly religious person.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Take back your kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Harish Candra got back his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Thus he became famous for keeping his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Love for one's own country is called patriotism.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">We know that people have some special qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">These are truthfulness, keeping a promise, love for mankind, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">In a word, these qualities are called humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Patriotism is one of the ways to attain humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Patriotism is part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Shastra says, Janani janmabhumishcha swargadapi garioshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">This means that the mother and the birthplace are greater than heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">How does one can express one's patriotism?</sent>
				<sent id ="150">One has to work for the development of one's country.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He/She should work for the welfare of his/her country people.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">If the country is attacked, it must be protected.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Patriotism is expressed through these kinds of work.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Here is a story of patriotism collected from the Mahabharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">In ancient times there was a kingdom called Mahishmati.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The name of the king was Neeldhawja.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">His queen was Jana.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Neeldhawja and Jana had only one son.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">His name was Prabeer.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Prabeer was a very brave prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Once Judhishthira, the pandavaraj, decided to perform the aswamedha jagna (horse sacrifice).</sent>
				<sent id ="162">It was a religious offering of the kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Let me tell you the rules of the jagna.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Suppose a king wanted to perform an aswamedha jagna.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Then he would let the horse go freely.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Soldiers would follow the horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The horse would wander from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">If any king prevent the horse on its way, a battle would be start.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The battle wlould take place between the two kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The defeated king would be under the victorious one.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">If the horse was not stopped, it would go to another state.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In this way, all the kings of different regions must be defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Then the horse would be turned back.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The ceremony would come to an end with the sacrifice of the horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">This is known as the aswamedh jagna.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The king who thus kept his promise, would be the king of kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">To allow the horse to go unchallenged mean to accept subordination.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Those who loved freedom challenged it.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Then started a battle between the two kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The horse of sacrifice of the Pandavas went to the kingdom of Mahishmati.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Prince Prabeer stopped the horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He kept it confined.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">King Neeldhawja became frightened at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The Pandavas were great heroes.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Arjuna was their commander- in-chief.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">King Neeldhawaja wanted to free the horse but Queen Jana opposed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Otherwise, She thought, the country would lose its independence.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">She supported the prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">So, there was a fierce battle between Prabeer and Arjuna, the chief of the Pandava-army.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Prabeer fought the battle at the cost of his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Arjuna was moved by the heroism of Prabeer.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Arjuna might have been defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">But Prabeer was defeated at last.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Prabeer was killed at the hand of Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Jana shocked but she did not break down.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Jana was a patriot.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Her son Prabeer was also a patriot.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Her son died for the freedom of his country.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">It was a glorious death.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">But king Neeldhawaja accepted defeat.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He freed the Pandava horse of the aswamedh jagna.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Jana was much grieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">To her, death was better than bondage.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">So she sacrificed her life in the water of the River Ganges.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Although Jana died she became immortal.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Blessed was Jana.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Blessed was the heroic son of the brave mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">We will be like Prabeer, the heroic son of Jana.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">We will be patriot like Jana.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">We will love our country more than our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Fellow feeling creates love for others.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">We live in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">We live together with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">To live alone is very difficult.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">We help one another in time of danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">This is called fellow feeling.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Here there is no caste and creed.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Fellow feeling makes a society beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Here There are many nations in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">There are many religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">But the human being is the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">We all will help one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Different persons follow different religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">But all religions are true.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">All religions tell about the welfare of humankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">So we will show respect for all religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">We will love the followers of all the religious.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">We will go to our classmates in their moments of joy and sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">We will go to our friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">We will go to our juniors.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">We will go to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">If necessary, we will help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">We will show fellow feeling for everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Fellow feeling is a great quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Fellow feeling is a virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">They saw a big forest while flying above.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">There was an open space in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Hindu Religious Studies 71 A lot of grains of rice were scattered over there.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">They became greedy as they were hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The group leader Chitragreeb told them, Be careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">See all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">How come, there are grains of rice scattered in this lonely forest!</sent>
				<sent id ="243">But they were very hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">And the grains were tempting.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The pigeons did not listen to the warning of Chitragreeb.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">What could the leader do!</sent>
				<sent id ="247">So he gave in.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Then all of them sat together on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">And just then the mishap took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">All were caught in a net.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">A hunter scattered grains of rice and spread a net.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">The pigeons became afraid of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">The group leader Chitragreeb assured them, Don't be afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Don't lose your patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Let us fly together with the net.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">They did exactly what they thought.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The pigeons flew away with the net.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">They went out of sight.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Seeing this, the hunter went back to his own place.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Chitragreeb then told the other pigeons, There is a rat who is my friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">His name is Hirannyaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Let us go to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">He will cut the net with his sharp teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">We will be free.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">All of them went to Hirannyaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Chitragreeb began to call him.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Hirannyaka came out of the hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">He saw that the flock of pigeons was caught in a net.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Chitragreeb was also with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">He felt sorry for his friend Chitragreeb.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">He said, Dear friend, let me free you first, then I will free others.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">I cannot bear their pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Please free them first.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Hirannyaka was moved by the fellow feeling of Chitragreeb.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">This was also an example of Hirannyaka's fellow feeling.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">He cut the net and made the other pigeons free.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Then he freed the leader of the group Chitragreeb.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
