<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>3-hind-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:54.012</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">196</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">1424</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">585</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t17">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Every morning we brush our teeth after we get up.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">We also wash our hands and face.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">We wear clean closthes.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">We comb our hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">To keep us tidy in this way is called cleanliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">If we keep clean, our body and mind are fresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Everybody loves people with fresh body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">What is wrong if we are not clean?</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Bad smells come from our mouth and body.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">It causes diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">People around hate us.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Friends keep their distance from us.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Everybody neglects us.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Nobody likes this situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">So, we need to build the habit of cleanliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Cleanliness makes our mind pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">It is part of religion as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">We need to keep us clean before any prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Therefore, every morning we must wash our hands and mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">We will brush our teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">We can also take a bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">We will wear clean clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">We will comb our hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">We must wash our feet and face when we come from outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">If necessary, we will again take a bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Before going to bed, again we will brush our teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Then we will go to sleep, remembering God.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Without being clean, we should not do anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">We will never forget this.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">And we will always remain clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Our parents and teachers are our elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">They tell us to follow the paths of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">They tell us to speak the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">We also know that we should always speak the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The word truthfulness comes from true.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">A true thing lasts for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It does not end.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Truth also means God, because God remains everywhere will remain everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Nobody likes a liar.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">But everybody likes a truthful person.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Where there is truth, there is God.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Truth is religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">If you want to be a follower of God, you should be truthful.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Again, if you want to be dear to all, you have to be truthful.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">You have to choose the paths of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Truthfulness is to always speak the truth and follow the paths of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">In oher words, to always keep to the path of truth is truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">If you are truthful, you can be successful in anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Truth always wins.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">But a lie is always defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Long long ago, there was king of the devils.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">His name was Hironnyakashipu.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">He a follower of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Rather, he considered him as his enemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">King Hironnyakashipu had a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">His name was Prohlad.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">He was just opposite to his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He became a follower of Vishnu and started worshipping him.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">He used to sing in praise of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">A Vishnu worshipper in devils kingdom!</sent>
				<sent id ="61">And he was none but the crown prince!</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Absurd, because the king himself was anti-Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">How dare such a small boy do so!</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The king became furious.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">He called on Prohlad.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">King Hironnyakashipu asked, Prohlad, are you a follower of Vishnu?</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Prohlad : You are right, Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">You have to give up your belief.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Prohlad : Don't say like this, Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Vishnu is none but Ishwara himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Hironnyakashipu was very annoyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">But, after all, Prohlad was his son and he loved him very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">So, firstly he tried to change Prohlad with affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Then, he tried to do so with the help of his teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But Prohlad was determined.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">He did not change his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">King Hironnyakashipu became more angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">He finally decided to kill Prohlad.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Then some devils hit him with swords but Prohlad did not die.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Afterwards, he was sent to a house of poisonous snakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But the snakes did not bite him.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">They rather started dancing around him, raising their hoods.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Prohlad was given poisonous foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He ate them but nothing happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Next he was placed under the feet of an elephant.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The elephant picked him up with its trunk and placed him on its back.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Also his body was tied with pieces of stones and thrown into the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">But he was floating like a raft.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Prohlad did not drown.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">After all these incidents, the king again called him.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Prohlad came, chanting the names of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">King : How dare you chant the name of Vishnu after such punishments!</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Prohlad : Forgive me, Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Vishnu is Ishawara.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">I can't leave my Ishawara.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">King : Then I will kill you with my own hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">I want to see who saves you.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Prohlad : Vishnu will save me, Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">King : Vishnu!</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Do you think that he will come here to save you?</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Prohlad : He doesn't need to come down here.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He is present everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">King : Is your Ishawara present here?</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Prohlad : Oh, definitely.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">King : Look at this transparent pillar.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Do you think your Ishawara is present there as well?</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Prohlad : Yes, Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Of course, he is there too.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Hironnyakashipu became red in anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">He hit that column and broke it down.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Immediately, a dangerous thing happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">A lion-man came out of that broken column.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">It was terrific.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He started roaring and howling terribly.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Virtually the lion-man was Ishawara himself in disguise.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">It had the head of a lion.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">And its body was like a human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">That lion-man killed Hironnyakashipu.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Prohlad suffered a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">But he did not leave the path of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Finally truth won.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">We'll have to be like Prohlad.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">We'll have to practise truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Never will we leave the path of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We'll speak the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">We'll follow the path of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The wold polite refers t lowering down.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">We cannot lower down or ben a strong branch of tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">But a tender branch can easily be bent.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">In our society there are two kinds of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Some people are unbending.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">They use harsh words.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">They are easily irritated.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">They do not love others.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">They don't honour others.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">On the other hand, some people are very calm and quiet.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">They speak in a nice way.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">They love others.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Flexible nature and refined behaviour are called politeness.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Politeness is part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">It is a quality of the gentle and religious people.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Everybody loves those who have polite behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">We will be polite with our elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">We will be polite with our classmates, friends and the younger ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">We will be polite with everyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Polite behaviour increases our honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">It increases our dignity.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">A poet has said, If you want to be great, be small first.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Politeness makes life beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">We will make our life beautiful with polite behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Gentleness Gentleness is good behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">It is also nice behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">We express gentleness through what we do, what we say and what we wear.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">We do pronam to our elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">If we meet a friend, we ask, about his/her wellbeing.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">When our teacher enters the classroom, we stand up.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">We sit when our teacher asks us to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">We express our gentleness through all these activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It is said in the Gita: Do pronam to your elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Ask questions politely.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Serve him properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In this way, take a good lesson from him and acquire knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">We know a tree by its fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">We identify people with their behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">A gentle person wishes others well.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Even she/he maintains courtesy with someone she/he does not like.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Gentleness is one of the qualities of a religious person.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">It is a quality of a good person as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Everybody loves gentle people.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">We will behave in a gentle way with everyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">No matter if she/he is older junior or younger, a friend or a classmate.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">We will show good manners to all in our speech and activities, make-up and dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Judhishthir a showed gentleness field with his enemies even at the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Now listen to that story.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Judhishthira was the leader of the Pandavas and.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Durjodhona was the leader of the Kouravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">It was a battle between the cousins.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Naturally, all the relatives were divided into two sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Their grandfather, Vishma, was with the Kouravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Again, Drona was the arms instruction for both the Kouravas and the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Both the sides were prepared for the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Then suddenly Judhishthira did a strange thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">He bid down his arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">He went near the enemy side.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">What had happened?</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Everybody asked him not to go there.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">But Judhishthira did not listen to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">He went straight to Vishma and did pronam.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Vishma wished him success.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Then Judhishthira went to Drona and did pronam as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Drona also wished him success.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Though Judhishthira was an enemy to Vishma and Drona, he respected them.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He showed them courtesy.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He did not forget courtesy even at the battledfield.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Why will he forget?</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Gentleness is the quality of the religious people.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
