<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>3-hind-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:53.981</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">291</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2301</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">882</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t16">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Religion does good to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">It arouses faith in God in our mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The book that tells about religion is called a religious book or scripture.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">General books deal with knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">It can be any kind of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">It tells about the earth and human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Religious books deal with all these.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Moreover, it tells about Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">It also tells about the well beings of human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">It tells about the services to living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Religious books are full of advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Sometimes it narrates different myths and stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">They also show us directions to better life.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The name of our religion is Sanatana.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">It is also called Hinduism.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The main religious book of the Hindus is the Veda.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">They have some other religious books as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">These are the Upanishad, the Purana, the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">There are many stories and myths in the Ramayana and the Mahabharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">They teach us religion and show us the right ways of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The Ramayana is one of the holy books of the Hindus.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">It tells us the stories of Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The book that narrates the stories of Rama is called the Ramayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The Ramayana is written in Sanskrit.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">A muni (sage) named Balmiki wrote it in Sanskrit.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Later on Krittibash translated it into Bangla.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The Ramayana is divided into seven episodes (parst).</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Each episode is called a kanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Many many years ago, there was a king in Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">His name was Dashoratha.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">He had three queens - Koushalya, Kaikekee, and Sumitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Rama was Koushalya's son.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Kaikeyee's son was Bharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">And Shumitra had two sons - Lakshmana and Satrughna.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">At that time the devils were very harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">They disturbed religious activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">A hrishi (sage) called Bishwamitra saw their evilk deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Then he came to Ayodhya and took Rama and Lakshmana with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">On the way, a monster, Taraka, chased them.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Rama killed her with his arrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Rama and Lakshmana were great heroes since their boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Breaking the Horodhonu by Rama At that time Janaka was the King of Mithila.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Hrishi Bishwamitra took Rama and Lakshmana to Mithila.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Sita was the daughter of King Janaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">She was unmarried.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">There was a condition for her marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Janak had a bow (dhanu/dhanuk).</sent>
				<sent id ="48">He got it from Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Bow is called as Dhanu or dhanu.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">One of the ames of Shiva is Horo.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Many men tried to break it.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">nobody could succeed.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">So a marriage took place between Rama and Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">This news went to Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">King Dashoratha and two of his sons came to the place of King Janak.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">King Janak had another daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">She was Urmila.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">King Janak had a brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">His name was Kushadhawja.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">He had also two daughters - Mandabi and Shrutokirti.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">King Dashorotha arranged marriages for all of his four sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Sita was married to Rama, Urmilla to Lakshman.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Mandobi to Bharata, and Shrutokirti to Satrughno.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">King Dashoratha returned to Ayodhya with his four sons and daughters-in-law.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Some days passed away.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Gradually King Dashorath became old.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">He decided to make Rama the crown prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Usually the eldest son is the crown prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The same thing happen in Ayodhua.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">But Kaikeyee objected.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Her maid, Manthara, gave her some evil advices.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Once, Dashoratha promised Kaikeyee two boons.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In other words, he wanted to fulfill two wishes of Kaikeyee.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Now Monthara suggested Kaikeyee to ask for the boons.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">What were the boons?</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Firstly, Bharat would be the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">And secondly, Rama had to be banished from the kingdom for fourteen years.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">He would be staying in forests during that period.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Dashorotha was upset when he heard this.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">But if he did not fulfill her boons, it would be breaking his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">To keep a promise is part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Rama came to know about all these.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">He wanted his father to keep his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He left home for the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">His wife, Sita, and younger brother, Lakshmana, accompanied him.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Dashorotha could not bear this shock.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">At that time Bharata was in his uncle's home.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Hearing the news, he came back to Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Then he went to Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He tried to bring him back.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">But Rama did not agree.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Finding no other way, Bharata collected Rama's shoes and came back home.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">He put those shoes on the throne.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Then, sitting beside the throne, he ruled the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Ram, Lakshmana, and Sita were living in a forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">They had less than a year to fulfill fourteen years of their exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Then, suddenly a misfortune came.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">In those days, the king of Lanka was Ravana, a notorious devil.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Lanka was an island in the middle of Hindu Religious Studies 31 the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It was very difficult to enter there.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">One day, Ravana came from there in disguise and robbed Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Kishkindhya was the country of the monkeys.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">After much wandering, Rama and Lakshmana came to Kishkindhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">They made friendship with Shugrib, a monkey-warrior.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">At that time Bali was the king of Kishkindhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Bali was the elder brother of Shugrib.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">But these two brothers had long enmity.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Rama helped Shugrib.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Bali was killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">As a result, Shugrib became the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">In return, Shugrib ordered his monkey force to go to different places.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Their job was to find his friend's wife, Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The monkeys had a famous hero.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">His name was Honuman.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Honuman went to Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">He was moving from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">At last, he found Sita in Ashokbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Honuman set fire to the golden houses there, destroyed Lanka and killed many devils.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Hanuman came back from Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He gave the news of Sita to Ram.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">But how to reach Lanka?</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Going to Lanka needs crossing the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">After much thinking, an idea came.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Rama built a bridge on the ocean with the help of the monkey-soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">It could float on the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Ram crossed the ocean with his companions.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He reached Lanka and attacked it.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Bivishana, the younger brother of Ravana, told his brother to set Sita free.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">But Ravana did not agree.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Bivishona left Ravana and took Ram's side.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">There was a dangerous war between Rama and Ravana.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Many monsters died in that battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Ravana was defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">He was killed by Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Rama came back to Ayodhya with Sita and Lakshmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Bharata returned the kingdom to Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Rama became the king of Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Bharata became the crown prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Some days passed happily.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Rama loved his people very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">He used to neglect his own happiness for the good of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">At one stage, he exiled (sent away) Sita from Ayodhya to make his people happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">By this time, Sita became pregnant.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">In the forest, there was a hermitage of Balmiki Muni.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Sita took shelter there.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Some days later, Sita gave birth to two sons at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">They were named Lava and Kusha.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">They were twin brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Lava and Kusha grew up in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Long after, the sons met their father, Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Sita came back to Ayodhya with her sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">But again she was hurt by the attitudes of the royal court.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">She requested Mother Earth to give her shelter.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Then the earth was divided and a throne came out for her.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Sita ascended the throne and entered the underworld.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The Mahabharata was written by Krishna Dwaipayana Bedbyash.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">He is popularly known as Byashdev.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">We hear eldrly people saying : The story of the Mahabharata is like nectar.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">So Kashiram Dash narrates, the pious listen to.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">As a matter of fact, Byashdev wrote the original Mahabharata in Sanskrit.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">And it was translated into Bangla by Kashiram.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The Mahabharata is also divided in many episodes.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Each episode is called a Parbo.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The Mahabharata has altogether 18 episodes.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Many many years ago, there was a king in Hashtinapur.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">His name was Shantanu.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">He was the king of the Kuru clan.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">King Shantanu first married Ganga.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He had a son and his name was Debabroto.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Debabroto promised that he would never marry.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">For this strong (nLwe) determination people called him Vishma.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Later, King Shantanu married Satyabati.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">She had two sons - Chitrangod and Bichitabirjo.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Chitrangod died early.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">So Bichitrobirjo became the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">On behalf of him, Vishma ran the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Bichitrobirjo had two wives - Ambika and Ambalika.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Ambika's son was Dritorashtro and Ambalika's son was Pandru.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Pandru was younger and Dhritorashtro was elder.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">But Dhritorashtro was born blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">That is why, Pandru though younger, became the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The wife of Dhritorashtro was Gandhari.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">They had one hundered sons and a daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Some of their sons were Durjodhona, Dushashana, Bikornaa, etc. Durjodhon was the eldest son.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The name of their daughter was Dushwala.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Pandru had two wives - Kunti and Madri.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Kunti had three sons - Judhishthir, Vima, and Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Madri had two sons - Nakul and Sohodev.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Altogether these five brothers were called the Panchapandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Since Dhritorashtro was from Kuru clan, their sons were called Kourava.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Pandru died before his sons grew up.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Then the Pandavas grew up along with the sons of Dhritorashtro.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">They used to study and play together.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Together they learnt the art of using weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Dron was their teacher for this art.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The princes finished their education and training on arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Judhishthir became the crown prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">But Durjodhon could not accept it.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Out of jealousy, he decided to kill the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Together they decided to kill the Pandavas by fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The Pandavas were fortunate enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">They could somehow survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">They used to move secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">But they could not go on in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Their heroism became known in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">At that time the king of Panchal was Dhrupod.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">His daughter was Droupodi.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Eventually, everybody came to know that the Pandavas were alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">At last Dhritorashtro donated half of his kingdom to the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">He also allowed them to live in Khandabproshtho.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">In Khandabproshtho, the Pandavas were keeping well with their kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">But Durjodhon played a new trick.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">He made a plan with his uncle, Shokuni, and friend, Korno.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">According to their plan, they invited Judhishthir to play pasha (gambling).</sent>
				<sent id ="215">There was a condition in this game.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It was: the losing party would be exiled for twelve years.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">If anybody could know, they had to spend another twelve years in exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Judhishthir lost the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Accordingly, the Pandavas went to exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Droupodi also accompanied them.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The Pandavas were wandering from one forest to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">They visited many holy places.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">In the mean time, Arjuna set out for collecting arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">At one stage, he got Pashupat arms from Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">He also visited heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">There Indro gave him some other arms as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">During this period, Vima fought many wars.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Thus they killed many rakshashes (devils) and daityos (demons).</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Thus the time for exile was over.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Then they entered Birat City.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The city was named Birat after the name of its king, Birat.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The Pandavas did not express their real identity in Birat City.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">There they hid the arms on a Shomibrikksha.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Durjodhona sent his secret agents to different places.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">They looked fro the Pandavas at different places but failed to find them.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">At that time the king of Trigorto was Susharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Susharma came to Birart to steal cows.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Durjodhona and his brothers also came to Birat for the same purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">But with the help of the Pandavas, the king of Birat succeeded.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Gradually, the time of exile for the Pandavas was nearing to an end.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">And somehow their identity became known.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Arjuna had a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">His name was Avimonnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The King of Birat arranged the marriage of his daughter, Uttara, with Avimonnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Judhishthir fulfilled all the conditions of his exile and hiding.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Now he demanded a peaceful solution of the whole matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">He expected that Durjodhona would return his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">If not, he would be happy with five villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">But Durjodhon said, Without war I won't give the slightest part of ground'.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">He was very adamant.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Sri Krishna, Vishma, Dhritarashtra, Gandhari - everyone failed to make Durjodhona understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">All efforts for peace failed.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Both the Pandavas and the Kouravas took preparation for war.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">There was a huge stretch of land called Kurukhsetro.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">That place was decided as the battlefield.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Arjuna became the chief of the Pandava army.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Vishma became the chief of the Kourava army.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">In the battlefield, Arjuna saw his grandfather, Vishma, and his weapon trainer, Dron before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">He also saw his cousins and their sons there.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Everybody was ready for a battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">He realized that he had to fight, with and kill all these dear ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Arjuna became emotional.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">I won't go for this battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">At that time Sri Krishna gave him some advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">That was about knowledge, work and devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">All this advice is collected in the Srimodvagbat-gita.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Hearing this advice, Arjuna cooled down.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">He also regained his spirit of war.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">It was a horrible battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">During the battle Vishma was wounded by the arrows of Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">He fell down from his chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">He was lying on the arrows (shor).</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Altogether it lasted for eighteen days.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Nearly, all the heroes and soldiers of both the sides died.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Finally, when Durjodhona was killed by Vima, the battle ended.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Then started mourning for the dead, shading tears and heaving sighs all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Vishma gave advice to Judhishthir from his shoroshajjya.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Judhishthir calmed down with all this advice on religion and state affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Dhritorashtro, Gandhari, Bidur and Kunti left their homes and were self-exiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Judhishthir made an aswamedh jaggna (a kind of huge religious ceremony to sacrifice horses).</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Judhishthir became very sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">He handed over his kingdom to Porikhshit.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Porikhshit was the grandson of Arjuna and son of Avimonnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Judhishthir left his kingdom and started a journey towards heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">His four brothers and his wife, Droupodi, accompanied him.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">It was the last journey.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">It is called the mahaprosthana (a journey for ever).</sent>
				<sent id ="288">On the way, all his brothers and Droupodi died.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Judhishthir alone reached heaven alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">All of us should know the stories of the Mahabharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">It will bring piety to us.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
