<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>3-islam-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:54.169</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">186</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">1577</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">559</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t23">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Our great Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam was most favourite to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">As a man he was the best in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">His name was Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He was born in a Quraish family.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">His father was Abdullah and his mother was Amina.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">His grandfather's name was Muttalib.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The land of Arabia is to our west.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">It is far away from our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">It is a country of deserts.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">All of you can see sands and dunes.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">One of the famous cities of Arabia is Makkah Muazzama.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The holy Kaba is situated in this city.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">He was very gentle and well behaved from his childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">He never fought with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">He never called others names or said bad things.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">For this reason everybody loved him.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">He also loved people very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">He used to help people with their miseries.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">He was very truthful and always kept his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Everybody used to call him Al-Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Al-Amin means very trustworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">They used to fight one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">They used to steal and rob others.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">They used to hurt the orphans and poor people.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">They had no faith in one Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">They used to think that Allah has parents, children and partners, and brothers and sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">They worshipped idols.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The holy Prophet(Sm) asked them to be good people.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He told them to believe in one Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">He also asked the people of Arabia to stop torturing the poor and weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Some of the good people listened to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">They became Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">But the bad and evil people became angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">They refused to listen to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">They liked to hurt the Prophet(Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="36">But our beloved Phrophet (Sm) never took revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The leaders of the bad and evil people was named Abu Jahal.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">These people plotted to kill the Prophet(Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Allah commanded the Prophet to leave Makkah and go to Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The Prophet left for Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">This is known as Hijrat.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Hijrat means to leave ones country in order to please Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Most of the citizens of Madina were good people.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">They listened to the Prophet(Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="45">They came forward to help him.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The people of Makkah who had listened to the Prophet(Sm) came to Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The people of Madina helped them too.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">For this reason they are called Ansar.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Ansar means one who is helpful.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The people who went to Madina from Makkah are called Muhajir.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Muhajir means a person who performs Hijrat.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The great Prophet (Sm), along with the Ansars and Muhajirs formed an Islamic community.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">In that community stealing and robbing was unknown there was no stealing or robbing.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Many were converted into Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The bad and evil people were defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The weak and the poor were no more tortured.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Allah was pleased with the Mumins.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Our Prophet had four sons and four daughters.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The sons of the great Prophet died in childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">We are the great Prophet's 'Ummat'.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Ummat means follwers.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Almighty Allah has created us to worship Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">From time to time many people forgot Allah and went to a wrong path.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Allah the Gracious, has sent many Prophets and Rasuls to show them the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Once the people of Arabia forgot about One Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">They began to worship different idols.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">They used to quarrel and fight all the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">They would get into wars.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">They also killed and murdered other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">They were very much on to stealing, robbing and looting.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">There was no peace in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The Prophet (Sm) was born at such a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">He always used to think how he could improve the situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">At the age of forty the Prophet became very worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">During this period he used to go to the cave of Hera in Jabel-e- Noor.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">He used to remain in deep meditation in the thoughts of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The Almighty Allah sent the holy Qur'an to the Prophet through Hazrat Jibrael (A) .</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Our Prophet attained the prophedhood at the age of forty.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Bring faith in one Allah Do not worship idols.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Accept me as the prophet (Sm) and messenger of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Believe in the life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">You will be accountable for all you do in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Many people responded at the Prophet's beckoning.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">They became Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">They took Islam as their religion in response to the Prophet's call.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">They became mumin Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">But there were many bad people, who did not listen to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">They used to hurt the great Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">They wanted to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The Great Prophet Loved People Our Prophet(Sm) was Rahmatullil Alamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Rahmatullil A'lamin' means having kindness for the entire world.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Almighty Allah has said, Oh My Prophet!</sent>
				<sent id ="93">I have sent you as the symbol of kindness to this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Prophet (Sm) was very kind.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">He used to feel greatly for the poor and orphans.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Once Prophet (Sm) was going to a place.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">On his way he saw an old man was watering the plants in an orchard.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The source of water was far off from the orchard.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The old man was very tired.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He bent under the weight of the bucket of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He would be severely punished if he worked a little less.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Prophet (Sm) went to the old man when he saw his suffering difficulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">He took the bucket from the old man's hand and watered all the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">He said to the old man, Brother, please rest a while.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">If you ever feel the need of my help please call me.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">I will come and help you.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The Prophet has said, The servants who work for you are your brothers and sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Never hurt them.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Never insult them.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Feed them whatever you eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Buy them clothes that you would buy for yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Help them with their work.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He was never annoyed with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He has never scolded me for my work.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The Prophet(Sm) used to help his servants with their work.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">We should also help the people with their work.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Our Prophet always used to tell people to do good things.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">He used to tell them not to do bad or evil things.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">He would try to stop a man from torturing others even if he was powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He always protested against torture.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In Qur'an Majid it has been said, Of course Allah does not like the torturer.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Prophet(Sm) was once sitting with his Sahabis.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">At that moment an orphan boy came to him and said, Hujur!</sent>
				<sent id ="124">there is nothing for me to live.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Our Prophet(Sm) saw that the boy had no clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He was very thin.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He was almost dead of miseries.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Prophet(Sm) asked him, What has happened to you?</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Why do you look like this?</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The boy answered criying, My father has died.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">I am an orphan now.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">My father had a lot of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">But I did not get anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Leader Abu Jahal has taken every thing and turned me out of my house.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Prophet(Sm) knew that Abu Jahal was a famous leader of Makkah.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">He was the leader of the non-believers.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He was the greatest enemy of the Prophet(Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="138">But our Prophet(Sm) was not afraid of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He said to the boy, Come with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Let us see what Abu Jahal has to say?</sent>
				<sent id ="141">At that time Abu Jahal was with his friends near Kaba Sharif.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The Prophet went there with the orphan boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Why are you tormenting him?</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Abu Jahal was a very ill tempered man.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">He was a very evil man.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">People feared to speak out what was right in front of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The friends of Abu Jahal were amazed.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">They saw that the face of their leader had turned white.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">He stammered and said Yes, I have his fathers money.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">He left the money with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He was my friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The Prophet said, Please return all his fathers money to him right now.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It was surprising to see that Abu Jahal could not utter a single word!</sent>
				<sent id ="154">He returned all the money to the boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The boy was very happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Seeing this, the Prophet then left the place.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The friends of Abu Jahal said, Oh leader!</sent>
				<sent id ="158">we are amazed.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Why were you so frightened to hear Muhammad's demand command?</sent>
				<sent id ="160">You have agreed to what Muhammad has said without uttering a single word!</sent>
				<sent id ="161">You have given away so much money to the boy!</sent>
				<sent id ="162">His face looked like a sharp spear, which would pierce me.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">For this reason without hesitating I have returned the boy's money.''</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Prophet was the best friend of the tortured.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">He was very firm to the oppressor.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Hazrat Muhammad(Sm) was the last prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">He was the best Prophet and Rasul in the whole world.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">There will no Prophet or Rasul after him.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Many Prophets and Rasuls have come before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Many heavenly books were revealed to these Prophets and Rasuls.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Among these Prophets and Rasuls the most well known is: Hazrat Adam(A).</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He was the first man and the prophet of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He is the forefather of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">All people are his children.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Many more Prophets and Rasuls have come to this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">These Prophets and Rasuls were most dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">All of them have invited people to the path of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">They have said, Almighty Allah is One and Only.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He has no parents, children, brothers or sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">He has no partners.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">You will go to Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">There is only peace and happiness in Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">You will go to Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">There is only pain and sufferings in Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">If you didn't come to this earth, Everything would remain in the dark.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">And you arrived, oh the bright Sun.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
