<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>4-budh-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:54.717</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">233</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2084</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">780</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t51">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">You have learnt about Jatak in the previous class.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The Buddha took birth 550 times as Bodhisatva.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The stories of his previous births are to be called Jatak.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He would tell these stories when he propagated the Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The stories of Jataks are as nice as interesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">We must study all these stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The Jataks contain moral instructions.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">These precepts teach us to show mercy to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">They develop pity in us for others sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They give the instructions about our duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Bodhisatva did many good deeds in his several births in the past.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">You will also feel interested to do good works after having learnt all these.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">You can earn much virtue by doing good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The stories of Jataks are helpful in forming moral character.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Knowledge will be increased if you read the Jataks.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">You will be interested in doing good acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">You will learn to love your country.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">You will be dear to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The Jataks have also its literary value.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Five stories of Jataks are given in this chapter.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">It was many years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">There was a woman named Katyayni.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">She had only one son.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">When his mother grew old, he took care of and nursed her.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">He lived with his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">He looked after his old mother very carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Mother would not live any longer.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Thinking this, she gave her son in marriage with a beautiful girl.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Tell your mother to leave home.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Otherwise I will leave this house.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">To satisfy his wife the son told his mother Mother, you pick a quarrel everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Go and live anywhere you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Mother was shocked very much and left home weeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">She took shelter in a relative's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">She arranged her living by working hard in their families.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">He daughter-in-law gave birth to a male child.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It was so good looking that everyone was glad to see the baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Mother became very happy to hear that a grandson was born to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">But she felt very sorry in her mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">She thought, I could not see my dear grand son.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">I'm made homeless now without any fault of mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">I don't know whether there's any religion.'</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Mother thought, she would offer worship to religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">She arranged a dish with flowers and candle.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Devaraj Indra saw the pitiable condition of the helpless mother from the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">He appeared there in the disguise of a Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">He said Old mother, whatre you doing?</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Mother replied Im worshipping the religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Then mother told him everything about her son and daughter- in-law.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Indra said Mother, dont be sorry.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The mentality of your son and daughter-in-law must be changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">For, they also have had a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Go back home.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">I'm Devaraj Indra.'</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Both of them said, Mother, look at your grandson.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">They offered the grandchild into their mother's arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">She took her grandchild on her lap with love and affection and went back home.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Moral: Mother's virtues are not comparable.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">It was long ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The Brahmadatta was the king of Baranasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">During this time Bodhisatva was born as a peacock.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">There was the Baberu kingdom near Baranasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">There was no bird in Baberu.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Some merchants went to Baberu with a crow which could show directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The inhabitants of Baberu expressed wish to purchase the crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">They bought the crow with one hundred taka.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">They put the crow into a case made of gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Everyday they would give the crow fish, meat, sweet, fruits to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Thus the crow was being cared of and looked after.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The merchants came to Baberu again.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They nicely decorated a boat and made a peacock sit on top of its mast.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">When clapped the peacock would dance and sang sweetly.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The Baberus were charmed to see the beauty and qualities of the peacock.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">They bargained with the merchants a lot and bought the peacock with much money.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The Baberus became very happy to have the beautiful peacock.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">All came to see the peacock in groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">On the other hand, the crow was careless.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Nobody came to see it.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Even no food was given to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Having had no food it began to caw.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It flew to the place where waste was thrown and began to live on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">They are taking care of the peacock.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The crow is eating waste.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Before the arrival of Buddha common mendicants were respected.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">But after Buddha explained his doctrines, they lost what they received from the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">These hermits are compared with the crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Buddha with all his virtues is respected by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Moral: The virtuous are worshipped everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">In the ancient time Brahmadatta was the king of Baranasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">At that time Bodhisatva was born as Kuranga Mriga.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The deer would eat fruits of the forests and was growing up.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">There was a village just near the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">A hunter lived in that village.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">He earned his livelihood by selling meat of the deer of the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">He would lie in wait building a platform on a tree with fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The deer came to eat fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The hunter killed them by setting a trap.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">One day the hunter was waiting on his hunting platform after having his meal earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Bodhisatava appeared under the tree leaving his own dwelling house.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Bodhisatava in the guise of a deer was very intelligent.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Standing a little away from the tree, he wondered if there was any disturbance there.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The hunter saw, Bodhisatava was standing at a distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Then he began to throw sweet fruits to Bodhisatava sitting himself on the platform.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The fruits fell in front of Bodhisatava one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">He could understand that there was a killer on the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Looking up to the tree he found the hunter.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Yet he pretended not to see the hunter.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He said to himself, Oh the tree, you would drop your fruits underneath before.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Have you changed your nature today?</sent>
				<sent id ="110">You have changed your nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">So I'm also leaving this place.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">I'll eat fruits from other trees.'</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He was about to step forward to leave the place.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Finding no other means, the hunter threw a bow from his arrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He said, Now youre going away, but you cant escape my hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Then Bodhisatava said, I have rescued myself from you.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">But you can't escape the consequences of evil deeds (Akusal Karma).</sent>
				<sent id ="118">You must suffer the consequences of evil deeds in the long run.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Saying this, Bodhisatava in the guise of deer disappeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Moral: One must suffer the consequences of one's evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In ancient times there was a king named Brahmadatta in Baranasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Then Bodhisatava was born as a hare.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He had three friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">They were a fox, a monkey and an otter.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The four friends lived on the bank of the Ganges.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Sasak (the hare) was a great scholar.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Every evening he explained the Dharma to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">He said to the friends, Take the Uposath.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Observe the Shil (precepts).</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Donate what you can.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Shilavan's donation is fruitful.'</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Hearing the advice the friends went out in search of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The fox entered a house.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">He cried out three times: Whom do these belong to?</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Whom do these belong to?</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Whom do these belong to?</sent>
				<sent id ="137">But nobody responded.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">He then carried all those to their den.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">On the other hand, the otter went to the shore and smelt fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">He found out four fish digging the sand.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">He too cried out three times: Whom do these belong to?</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Whom do these belong to?</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Whom do these belong to?</sent>
				<sent id ="144">He then took the fish into the hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The monkey also plucked a bunch of mangoes from the forest and brought them in.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">On the contrary, the hare was thinking, What kind of donation he would make.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">His food is only grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Others cannot eat it.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">It was quite impossible for him to collect other foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">I would feed the guests with my self-gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">I would sizzle my own flesh to feed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Devaraj Indra could know about the firm determination of the Sasak.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Indra appeared in the disguise of a Brahmin to test the donation.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">He received everyone's donation one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">At last he appeared before the hare.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The hare became very glad to see him.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">He said to him, Make fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">I will jump into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">You will eat my sizzled flesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Please accept my donation.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Then Indra made fire with the bits of dry hay.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He then jumped into the fire without fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">But it was a strange, the fire did not touch even his hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The hare asked the Brahmin, Why is your fire so cold?</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Indra introduced himself to them and said, Oh hare, I am Indra.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">I have come to you in this from only to test you.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The hare said, Oh Devaraj, let all the beings of the world test my donation.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Devaraj Indra drew a hare on the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">For this reason, we see a sign of hare on the moon till now.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Moral: The virtuous are worshipped everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">There was a city named Andhapur during the reign of Bodhisatva in the past.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Two hawkers lived in this city.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">One of them was named Serivan, and the other was Seriva.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">One could follow the other's way later.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Once there was a wealthy Shresthi family in Andhapur.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The family lost their wealth in course of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Consequently they became poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Only two members were left alive in this poor family.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">One of them was a girl while the other was her old grandmother.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">They would pass their days in great troubles working at neighbours houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">On good days, the head of this family took food on a dish of gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It still existed.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">But the dish grew dirty as it was not in use for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">It did not look like a dish of gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The hawker Seriva was greedy and clever.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Hearing it, the girl said, Buy me an ornament, Grandma.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Grandmother said, Child, we are poor, where shall we get money?</sent>
				<sent id ="188">It is of no use to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Grandmother then called the hawker Seriva.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The hawker examined the dish very closely twice.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">He found that the dish was made of gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">An evil thought came over into his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He thought about how to take the plate by deceiving them.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He said, It wont be possible to give even a quarter in exchange of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Seriva pretended and went away throwing the dish on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">A few moments later, the hawker Serivan came.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The girl rushed to her grandmother and told her of the hawker.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Then the grandmother said, Didnt you hear it was valueless.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The girl said, Grandma, that hawker was not a good man.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This man seems to be a good hawker.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He won't object to buy the dish.'</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The grandmother called Serivan and gave the dish to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">As soon as Serivan found the dish, he understood that it was made of gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Serivan said, Mother, this plate costs a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">I dont have so much money with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The grandmother said, A few moments ago, another hawker came.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He told it doesnt cost more than a quarter.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">You are a good man.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">I shall give you the dish.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Give me what you can in exchange of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Serivan had five hundred taka and some goods with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">He kept only taka eight and the scales with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">He gave rest of the money and goods to Grandma.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Then he arrived on the bank of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">There was a boat in the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">He said to the boatman-Ferry me across the river soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Serivan and Grandmother with her granddaughter After a while, the greedy hawker came back again.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">He told the old woman-I thought I should give you some money.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Bring me the dish.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Grandmother said-Whatre you saying, my son?</sent>
				<sent id ="221">You told it doesn't cost even a farthing.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">I have given him the dish of gold for an exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">He was a very good man.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">He was perhaps your master.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">As soon as the greedy Seriva heard it, he was at a loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">He ran to and fro like a mad man.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">He threw about all the money and goods he had with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">He rushed to the bank of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The honest man Serivan was then ferried on the other side of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The wicked hawker kept looking blankly at him.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">He was so repented that he fainted and died there on the spot.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Selling the dish of gold, Serivan performed many charitable deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Moral: Avarice leads to vice and vice leads to death.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
