<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>4-hind-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:55.067</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">943</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">7597</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1973</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t67">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We know we have many holy books of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The Vedas is our main holy book of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Upanishad, Puranas and Upapuranas are other religious books.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">There are 18 volumes of Purana.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Similarly, there are 18 volumes of Upapurana.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The story of creation and destruction is told in the Puranas and Upapuranas.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">There are stories of gods, goodess, sages and saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">We are benefited by knowing about religious scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The Ramayana and the Mahabharata are two Holy Books of ours.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Every Hindu has a copy of the Ramayana and the Mahabharata at his home.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The stories of these two books are very attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">We enjoy reading and listening to these stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">We can earn virtue both by reading and listening to these stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The original Ramayana and Mahabharata were written in Sanskrit.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Valmiki Muni wrote the Ramayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Maharshi Vyasa wrote the Mahabharata, Later the Ramayana and the Mahabharata were translated into Bangla.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Kirtibash's Ramayana in Bangla is very famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Kashiram's Bangla Mahabharata is wellknown.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The Ramayana is the story of Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">It is called the Ramayana because it is based on the character of Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The word ‘Avon’ means character.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The story of the Ramayana is divided into seven sections.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Each of the sections is called a Kanda or an event.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">There are seven events in the Ramayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Now we are going to know about the story of the Ramayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">We will know the first four events elaborately and the other three in brief.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Long ago in Ayodhya there was a king named Dasharatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Dasharatha had three queens and four sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The names of the three queens were Kausalya, Kaikeyi and Sumitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Rama, Lakshmana, Bharata and Shatrughna were his sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Lakshmana and Shatrughna were twins.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Rama was the eldest of all four brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">All four of them were very handsome.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Everyone loved them.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">They were good in studies, sports and the art of using weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">As they were prince they had to learn lot of things.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">When they finished their learning, the king Dasharatha started to think about their marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">One day Viswamitra came to the royal court of Dasharatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Viswamitra was a grat saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">He wanted Rama and Lakshmana from Dasharatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">In Viswamitra's Tapoban there were disturbances created by Rakshas (demons).They distturbed in religious act.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They had been disturbing his sacrifices.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">For this reason Viswamitra came to take Rama and Lakshmana with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Rama and Lakshmana would fight against the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">They would kill the demons and restore peace in Tapoban.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">But he feared the saint much more.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">If the saint Viswamitra curses then it can destroy everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">So he decided to send Rama and Lakshmana with Viswamitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Viswamitra, Rama and Lakshmana were going through the deep forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">All on a sudden a Rakshas named Tarka attacked them.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">She was very fearful to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Her screaming was frightening.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">But Rama and Lakshmana were not scared.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Rama shot an arrow and killed Tarka.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">At last they reached Tapoban.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Viswamitra started worshipping.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Rama and Lakshmana kept watching.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The Rakshas came and began to disturb.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">But in vain they could not manage to beocme successful.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Many demons were killed by Rama and Lakshmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Those who survived ran away.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Ther was no fear of the Rakshas in the Tapoban.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Viswamitra was happy with Rama and Lakshmana’s heroism.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">At that time Mithila was ruled by the king named Janaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Viswamitra took Rama and Lakshmana to Mithila.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Janaka had a daughter named Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Viswamitra wished that Rama and Sita should get married.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">But there was a condition to marry Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Janaka had a big bow named ‘harodhanu’.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Shiva's other name is ‘Haro’.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Shiva gave this bow to Janaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">For this reason the bow is called harodhanu.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Many kings tried but could not break the bow.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Many of them could not even raise the bow.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Rama broke the harodhanu.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The marriage between Rama and Sita was settled.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The news reached Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Dasharatha came, along with his two sons named Bharata and Shatrughna.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Janaka had another daughter named Urmila.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Kushadhaj was Janaka's brother and he had two daughters as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Their name was Mandavi and Shrutakirti.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Janaka, Dassharatha and everyone were very happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Dasharatha went back to Ayodhya with his sons and daughter-in-laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">In Ayodhya there were lot of celebrations.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Time flew away in joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Dasharatha became old.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He wanted Ramachandra to become the crown Prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">As Rama was the eldest son he should become the crown Prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Moreover, Rama was a hero.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Rama was intelligent and modest.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">All his subjects loved him.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">They were very happy to hear King announcement.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Again the whole city was in festive mood.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">But all on a sudden this celebration stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Kaikeyi, Bharata's mother had a maid named Manthara.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">She gave evil counsel to Kaikeyi.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Once Dasharataha granted Kaikeyi's two boons.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">It means that he wanted to fill-fill twp of her wishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Now Manthara asked Kaikeyi to demand the fulfilment of the two boons.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Kaikeyi asked for the two boons to Dasharatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Listening to Kaikeyi, Dasharatha was heart-broken.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He fell on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">He knew that if he did not give the boons he would break his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">This is an irreligious act.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">To keep promise is an act of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Rama came to know everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">He immediately agreed to whatever Kaikeyi wanted and to keep his father's promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">So he went to the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">His wife Sita and his younger brother Lakshmana also went with Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Dasharataha was not able to bear this sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Soon after, he died.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">At that time Bharata was staying at his maternal uncle's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Hearing the news he returned to Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He heard everything and became furious with his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">But he had npthing to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">He headed for the forest to bring back Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">But Rama did not return to Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Bharata returned to the kingdom with Rama's sandals.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">He placed Rama's sandals on the throne of Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He sat next to it and thus ruled the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Rama, Sita and Lakshmana were living in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">They were moving from one forest to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Different kinds of fruits of the forest were their main food.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">There were ashrams or hermitages of sages and saints in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">They went there and stayed for sometime and then moved to another place.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Lot of dangers and fear of ferocious animals were there.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Most of all there was the fear of demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">They used to fight with the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Many demons died in the hands of Rama and Lakshmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Once they reached Dandaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">There was a place named Panchabati in Dandaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Panchabati was a very beautiful place.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The Godabari river passed nearby.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Various kinds of trees and birds were there.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Here they met a large bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Its name was Jatayu.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It was a firend of Jatayu.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Rama and Lakshmana made house of leaves in Panchabati.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">They collected fruits from the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Sita cooked food for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">She decorated the house they lived in.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">They passed their days in peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">One day when three of them were sitting, a beautiful woman came there.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">She was actually a demoness in disguise of a beautiful woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">She introduced her as Surpe kha, sister of the king Ravana.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">She proposed to marry Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Rama did not respond.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">He said that he was married.Then she approached Lakshmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Lakshmana too refused.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Surpanakha became very angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">However, Lakshmana cut Surpanakha's nose and ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Surpanakha was Ravana's sister.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">So, she had many demon guards of her own.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">They attacked Rama and Lakshmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">All demons were killed in the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Surpanakha flew back to Lanka and told Ravana the incident at Panchabati.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">She wept a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">She wanted a revenge from her elder, brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">She informed Ravana that Rama had a beautiful wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">He should bring her and make her queen and that will be the reyehge.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Ravana thought of taking revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He called the demon Maricha.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Maricha can make many illusions.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">He can take different forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">He discussed with Maricha and decided what to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">After that both of them went to Panchabati.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">That Rama, Lakshmana and Sita were sitting at the door of their hut.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Suddenly they saw a beautiful deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">It was golden in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Actually it was Maricha in disguise of that deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Sita saw the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Sita said to Rama, I want to have it.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">So, Rama went after the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Following the deer Rama went far away.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Then Rama shot an arrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The deer died.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Actually Maricha died in the guise of that deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">But before dying it shouted in the voice of Rama Help, help.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">It was exactly like the voice of Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Sita and Lakshmana heard the voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Sita being worried asked Lakshmana to help Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It must be an illusion created by some demon.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">But Sita did not want to listen.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">So, Lakshmana went to look for Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Sita was alone in the hut.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">She was eagerly waiting for Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Ravana was waiting for this chance.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Sita stepped out to give the old man some alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Sita was shouting help, help.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">She called Rama and Lakshmana and cried.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Jatayu, seeing them fly, attempted to save Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">But Ravana engaged Jatayu in a combat and choped off his wings.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">But they could not find Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">So, they started crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Rama and Lakshmana burnt his body.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Then they went out looking for Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">As they were looking for Sita, they came to Rishyamuk mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">There they found some monkeys sitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Sugriva was their leader.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">His two friends were Hanuman and Jambuban.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Sugriva was the brother of the king Vali of Kishkinda.Vali deposed Sugriva for a cause.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">So, Sugriva did not have a kingdom and he had no wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">He stayed on the mountain Rishyamuk.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Rama introduced himself to Sugriva and said about his miseries.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Then Sugriva said, “Ravana's chariot flew over our head.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">A woman was crying while sitting into the chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">She had dropped from the chariot some of her ornaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Sugriva gave those to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Rama and Lakshmana could recognise Sita's ornaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">They started crying again.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Sugriva consoled them.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">He said he had many monkey soilders.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">He would rescue Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Rama heard the sad story of Sugriva.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Rama agreed to defeat Vali and make Sugriva the king of Kishkinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Rama and Sugriva became friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Sugriva went to Kishkinda with Rama and Lakshmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Then he called Vali.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Sugriva and Vali had a terrible fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Rama shot an arrow from his bow and killed Vali.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Sugriva regained his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Sugriva and Rama sent the monkey soldiers in various direptions in search of Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">In one team of the monkey soilders there were Hanuman and Jambuban.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The son of Vali, Angad was their leader.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Rama realized that Hanuman was intelligent and strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">He gave him his ring.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Angad's army went to the south.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">One day they met an ancient vulture, Sampati, who was the brother of the Jatayu.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">He was soon able to spot Sita in the southern direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">There was the island Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Ravana was the king of Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Hanuman went with Angada as his general.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">They could find no means to cross the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">They saw a mountain in distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The mountain was called Mahendra.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Its pick touched the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Hanuman said, I would climb the mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Then I would jump from there.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Hanuman leaped the vast expanse of water and reached Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">He discovered Sita in the Asoka grove.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Hanuman destroyed groves of Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">He burnt Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Many demons died.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Then he jumped again and reached Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">He gave Rama all the information about Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">They became thoughtful.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">But Hanuman crossed it.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">So, they built a bridge on the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Rama and Lakshmana along with the monkey soilders crossed the bridge and reached Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Vibishana, Ravana's brother, allied with Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Ravana died in the war.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Vibishana became the king of Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Rama and Sita came back to Aypdhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Rama became the king of Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Ayodhya was prosperous, the people were happy, and for a time all went well.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">But a terrible thing then happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">To make the subject happy Rama sent Sita to exile in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Sita was pregnant then.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Kush and Lava grew in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">After a long time Rama and his sons came to know one other.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Sita came back to Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">But soon Sita was hurt by Rama's word.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">She did not want to live on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">She appealed to the earth to open its bosom and take her into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">People became very sorry.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">We have heard and read this for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Yet we like to hear and read this again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The reading of the Mahabharata is always enjoyable.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Kashiram Das first wrote the Mahabharata in Bangla.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">The Mahabharata is found in every Hindu family.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">We know that the original Mahabharata is written in Sanskrit.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Vyasadeva wrote it.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">It is based on the story of the Kurus and the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">The work is divided into 18 parvas.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">We have learnt about the story of the Mahabharata in class three.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Here we will know the first eight parvas in details.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Long ago there ruled a king of Kuru named, Santanu, the king of Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">He was married to Ganga.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">They had a son named Devarata.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">After Devarata's birth she left him.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Santanu got married again.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Devarata was a young man then.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">He was a great warrior.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Everyone knew about his heroic deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Satyavati was the second wife of Santanu.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Devarata agreed to this condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Not only this one, Devarata vowed that he would never get married.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Devarata received the name Bhishma because of this terrible resolve.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">He is well known in the Mahabharata by the name Bhishma.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Santanu and Satyavati had two sons named Chitrangada and Bichitrabirja.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Chitrangada died in a war.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Bichitrabirjo became the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Bichitrabirjo got married to Kashiraj's two daughters Ambika and'Ambalika.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Dhritarashtra was Ambika's son and Pandu was Ambalika's son.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Dhritarashtra was elder to Pandu.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">But Dhritarashtra was a born blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">So, Pandu became the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Dhritarashtra and Pandu got married.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Dhritarashtra was married to Gandhari.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">They had hundred sons and one daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Their sons were called Duryodhana, Dushasana, Bikarno etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Duryodhana was the elder son.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Dushala was their only daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Duryodhanas were known as Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Pandu had two wives named Kunti and Madri.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Kunti had three sons named Yudhisthira, Bhima and Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Madri had two sons named Nakula and Sahadeva.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">The five brothers were known as Pancha Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">They were called Pandavas as they were sons of Pandu.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Pandu died long before his sons were adult.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Madri also died along with Pandu.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Kauravas and Pandavas were growing together.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">They studied, played and learned how to use weapons together.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Bhishma looked after them.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Drona, the teacher, taught them to use weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Bhima was very strong from his boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">He gave beating to Duryodhana and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">No one could win over him in strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Arjuna was the best in archery.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The Pandavas were very nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">They were humble and gentle.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Every one loved them and praised them.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">But Duryodhana was jealous and tricky.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Duryodhana could not hear Pandava's praise.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">He wanted to harm them.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">His maternal uncle gave him evil ideas.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Once Duryodhana wanted to kill Pandavas by burning them into the fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">But the Pandavas survived.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">They escaped before the house was set to fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Every one thought that the Pandavas were dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">The Pandavas spent many years in disguise.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Bhima killed many a demon.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Bhima got married to a demon called Hirimba.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">They had a son named Ghatotkacha who was a famous warrior.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">One day the Pandavas arrived at Panchal.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Drupada was the king of Panchal.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">The name of Drupada's daughter was Draupadi.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Arjuna won the archery contest easily and Draupadi chose him.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The Pandavas came back home with Draupadi.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">It was late night.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Mother Kunti was in the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">They told their mother that they had won a very nice prize.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Without having a look the mother asked them to share the prize among five brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">The Pandavas always obeyed their mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">So, all the five brothers married Draupadi.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Every one came to know that Pandavas were alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Dhritarashtra came to know about the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">He called them to Hastinapura, the City of the Elephant,.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Then he divided the kingdom among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">The Pandavas got the Khandavprashtho.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">They started living in Khandavprashtho.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Indraprastha was Pandava's capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">The houses and streets of Indraprastha were very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">It made people wonder.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Yudhisthira did Rajsua meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Many kings, sages, saints and thousands of people attended the meditation ceremony.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Many things were distributed.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">People ate a lot of delicious dishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Duryodhana also came there in Rajsua meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Duryodhana was very much jealous to see the Pandava's pomp and glory.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">He could not tolerate any thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">At last he took a decision.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">He invited Yudhishthira to play the dice game.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Shakuni, an infamous dice player, would play on behalf of Duryodhana.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Shakuni knew many tricks of the dice game.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">He knew all about how to cheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Yudhishthira was called to play the dice game.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Draupadi and the Pandavas also came along with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">They started playing.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Dushasana dragged Draupadi before the court by her hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Bhima could not tolerate this.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Dhritarashtra heard every thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">He became angry with his sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Thus the Pandavas got their kingdom back.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">But Duryodhana was not happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">He blamed Dhritarashtra for making all the damage to his plans.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">He again consulted Shakuni.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Duryodhana asked Yudhishthira for one more throw of the dice.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">He gave different conditions this time.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">If anyone recognized them, they must spend another twelve years in exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Once again Yudhishthira lost the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">According to the condition the Pandavas and Draupadi went to the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Pandavas started roaming around in different forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">They first lived in the Kamma forest and then went to Daitya forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Many things happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Danger was all around them.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Demons attacked them.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Bhima killed the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">The forest turned into a secured place.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Arjuna then left to collect celestial weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">He worshiped Shiva and he gave him powerful weapon called Pashupot.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Arjuna went to heaven with the help of Indra.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Indra gave him powerful weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">At last Arjuna came back.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Twelve years of hardships and exile in the forest had past.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The thirteenth year the Pandavas were to spend in disguise.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">They decided to go the city of Virata.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">No one would recognize them there.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">If some one recognise them they would be in a great trouble.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">If anyone identified them, they must spend another twelve years in exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">So, they had to be very careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">Virata was the king of Matshadesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">The capital is called Virata after the name of the king Virata.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Pandavas had decided earlier what to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">The pandavas took different names in Virata.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Yudhishthira remained as Virata's friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">He used to tell stories and play the dice game.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Bhima did the work of cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Arjuna in disguise of a woman started teaching dance to the princess.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Nakula was the doctor of the horses.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Shahadeva looked after the cows.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Draupadi was with the queen Sudeshna to set her hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Meanwhile Duryodhana was looking around for the Pandavas, but could not find.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Matshadesh was the last place to look for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Duryodhana attacked Virata's kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Duryodhana's friend king Shusharma also joined with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">They took the position of Virata.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">The time of being in disguise was passed for the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Pandavas saved the Kingdom Virata.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Bhima defeated Shusharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Arjuna defeated Duryodhanas.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">King Virata came to know about the real identity of the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">He was very glad.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Virata's daughter's name was Uttara.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Uttara got married to Abhimanyu, son of Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">The Pandavas fulfilled all the conditions of exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Yudhishthira sent a messenger to Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">He wanted his kingdom back.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">They requested at least five villages for the five brothers from the Kauravas vast kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">He did not want a war.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">He wanted a peaceful solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Duryodhana refused to give in.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Duryodhana said that he would not give an inch without war.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Krishna, Bidur, Bhishma, Drona, Dhritarashtra and Gandhari tried hard to maintain peace, but in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Duryodhana refused to listen.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Both the sides were ready for the war.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">They got their allies and two large armies arrayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">There was a vast field called Kurukshetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Arjuna was commander-in-chief of the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Srikrishna was the charioteer of Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Bhishma was commander-in-chief of Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Arjuna was heart-broken at the idea of killing them.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">He broke down and refused to fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">He said to Krishna I do not want to fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">How can I enjoy kingdom after killing my own relatives?</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Then Krishna gave him lots of advice on intelligence, work and devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Krishna said that war is like religion to a warrior and a king.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">We should punish the bad people and save the good people from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Shrimatbhagabatgita is based on the advice of Srikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">So Arjuna was encouraged to fight the war.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">A deadly war took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">It caused lots of damages to both the parties.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Bhishma was commander-in-chief of Kauravas for ten days.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">At last he was hurt by Arjuna's arrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">He fell from his chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Thousands of arrows hit Bhishma’s body.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">This is called Bhishmas bed of arrows’.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">After Bhishma's lying on the bed of arrows Drona became, the j commander-in-chief of Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Drona promised to Duryodhana that he would catch Yudhishthira for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Shaongshaptak warriors came to the battle-field and they vowed to do or die.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">They never ran away from the battle-field.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Arjuna had to go away to fight against the Shaongshaptaks.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Arjuna had been diverted away from the central battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">So, this was Kaurava's chance.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">Drona positioned the armies in a formation known as the iron disc of war.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">Nobody knew how to break open, apart from Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">But he was far away then.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Yudhishthira became worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Abhimanyu was entrusted with the task of opening a breach in the disc.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">Abhimanyu fought bravely.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">He caused lots of damages to the Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">At last Abhimanyu was attacked by seven great warriors.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">They were called Saptarathi together.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">He was killed in an unjust war.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Arjuna came back.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">He heard the news of his son Abhimanyu's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">He heard that Jayodrath was largely responsible for Abhimanyu's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">Jayodrath was Duryodhana's sister Dushala's husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">Arjuna vowed that he would kill Jayodrath before the next sun set.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">If he failed to do that he would burn himself in the fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">A deadly war took place on the next day.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">Kauravas tried their best to save Jayodrath.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">But he got killed in the hands of Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">Arjuna could keep his promise because of Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">The war continued.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">No one could beat Drona.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">At last Pandavas made a plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">An elephant named Ashwatthama died.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">Drona had a son who was also named Ashwatthama .</sent>
				<sent id ="490">According to the plan the Pandavas said to Drona that Ashwatthama was dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">Being misguided by the Pandavas, Drona thought that his son had died.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">So, he sat on the chariot and got rid of the arrow called Dhanurban.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">Taking this opportunity Dhristodumno came forward and cut down his head.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">That was the fifteenth day of the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">After Drona's death Kama became the commander-in-chief of the Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Kama was a great warrior.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">He was Duryodhana's friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">Kama came to the battle-field.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">A terrible war took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Except Arjuna all the Pandavas were defeated by Kama.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">Yudhishthira was hurt.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">Kama took a vow that he would only-kill Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">He would not kill the other Pandavas even if he got an opportunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">Bhima killed the brothers of Duryodhana everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">Bhima killed Dushasana while fighting with Kama.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">The Kauravas flew away seeing the fearful Bhima.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">At last a terrible fight took place between Arjuna and Kama.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">As -the fight continued, the earth opened up and seized the wheels of Kama's chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Kama got down from the chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">He tried to seize it up.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">Taking this opportunity Arjuna threw a devastating arrow towards Kama.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">Kama died then and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">Kama died on the seventeenth day of the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">The battle of Kurukshetra lasted for eighteen days.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">The last one to die was Duryodhana.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">Bhima killed the hundred brothers of Duryodhana.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">The Pandavas won the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">Yudhishthira became the king of Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">Cleanliness keeps both our mind and body well.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">It makes us holy Cleanliness is a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">We wear clean clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">We comb our hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">For example, we wash our hands before taking our food.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">If we do not clean our hands, it may cause diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">After taking our meals we again wash the hands and brush our teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">We should remember that we must always remain clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">If we remain dirty it will make us feel gloomy.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">It creates an odd feeling.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">If we remain clean it will make us feel fresh and happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">We feel a divine peace in mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">Mind becomes pure-.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">It inspires us to be active.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">Many good qualities are .mentioned in our religious books.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">Our religion represents ten qualities or virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">One of these is Suchita.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">Suchita means to remain pure by being clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">It helps us to become religious.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">So, we should always'remain neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">We all have ‘Puja Ghar’ (a room for worship) in our house.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">Some of us have temples in our house.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">Moreover, we have many temples in our locality.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">There are many temples in different places of the country and also around the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">When we visit a temple we should be neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">We know that we offer gifts to goddess Saraswati on the day of her worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">We should take a shower and wear clean clothes before doing it.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">We offer our prayer to Bhagaban and gods and goddesses as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">We have to be neat and clean before offering our prayers.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">We have also to keep our environment clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">We should not throw dirt or spit here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">It pollutes the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">If the environment is polluted it causes bad effect on our body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">We should keep our body healthy along with our mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">We should make our mind pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">Hurting people and the act of boasting make one impure.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">We should not hurt people.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">We should not boast and become greedy either.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">If we do this then our mind cannot remain pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">To be pure in mind and body is a part of relition.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">So, it is our duty to keep our mind and body pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">We know that truth prevails everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">If we follow the true path we will win.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">We also know that truthfulness is a part and parcel of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">The scripture teaches Satyang Bodo- speak the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">Follow the path of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">Everyone loves, respects and trusts a truthful person.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">Everyone dislikes and hates a liar.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">We should not get away from the path of truthfulness under any situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">Now let us listen to a story about ‘Truth Shall Prevail’.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">There was a village named Subarno.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">It stood beside a forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">There was a hut at an end of the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">A poor woodcutter lived there.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">He had a wife and a little daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">The woodcutter had no wealth but an axe made of iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">He used to cut down trees of the forest with that axe.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">He sold the wood in the market and earned a little money.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">With that money he used to maintain his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">He lived from hand to mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">Though he was poor he was happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">He was very simple and truthful.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">He never told a lie.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">He did not do any harm to other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">He always had a smile on his face though he was living ift hardship.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">His heart was full of joy and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">There was a river flowing by the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">The river was not very wide, but it was deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">There were small waves in the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">Branches of some trees bent down on the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">One day, the woodcutter climbed a tree and was cutting down a branch.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">The tree was on the bank of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">All on a sudden the axe fell into the water from his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">The woodcutter was at a loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">He did not know what to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">The axe was his only source of income.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">How could he buy food for the family members?</sent>
				<sent id ="596">He had no money to buy an axe.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">The river was very deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">But he thought that he must bring the axe back from the water by diving.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">He came down from the tree and walked towards the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">When he was about to dive, a miracle happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">He heard that someone was calling him.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">I shall find the lost axe for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="603">The woodcutter looked around.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">He saw a lady standing in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">She was beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">She was wearing a bright dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">She had a gold crown on the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">She was smiling, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">She assured the woodcutter and said, “Don't be afraid my child.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">I am Ganga, the goddess of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="611">After a while the goddess appeared there with a gold axe in her hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">It was glittering.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">Goddess Ganga said, “Take a look, is this yours?</sent>
				<sent id ="614">The truthful woodcutter replied, “No, mother Ganga.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">This is a very beautiful axe, but it is not mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">Goddess Ganga smiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">She said, “Wait a bit.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">I am going to dive again to bring your axe.</sent>
				<sent id ="619">Now goddess Ganga came out with an axe made of silver.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">Again the woodcutter replied, “This is also very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">But it is not mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="622">Goddess Ganga dived again into water.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">This time she brought another axe.</sent>
				<sent id ="624">Showing it to the woodcutter she said, “Look son, is this yours?</sent>
				<sent id ="625">The woodcutter replied, “Mother Ganga, Accept my pronam.</sent>
				<sent id ="626">This axe is mine, please give it to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="627">The mother Ganga was pleased with the woodcutter for his truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="628">She gave back the iron axe to the woodcutter.</sent>
				<sent id ="629">She also gave the golden and silver axes to the woodcutter.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">After that day the woodcutter was no more in want.</sent>
				<sent id ="631">The woodcutter did not show any greed for the golden and silver axes.</sent>
				<sent id ="632">For his truthfulness he was rewarded.</sent>
				<sent id ="633">We should not be greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="634">We should always speak the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="635">We should follow the path of honesty.</sent>
				<sent id ="636">We know that modesty and politeness are two special qualities of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">Generosity is also a special quality of human being as modesty and politeness are.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">Generosity treats every person equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">A generous person does not treat people differently.</sent>
				<sent id ="640">Generosity means greatness of heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="641">No one is low in the eyes of a generous perspn.</sent>
				<sent id ="642">He has equal affection and love for all.</sent>
				<sent id ="643">He-is as great-as the sky and this is how we mark him.</sent>
				<sent id ="644">A generous person is modest and polite.</sent>
				<sent id ="645">Simplicity is his glory.</sent>
				<sent id ="646">He is forgiving.</sent>
				<sent id ="647">He always does well-being to others and never does any harm to anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="648">Everyone loves a person who is modest, noble and generous.</sent>
				<sent id ="649">A person who is not-generous is hated by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="650">He possesses a very narrow: mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="651">He only thinks of himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="652">For his own happiness: he can do harm to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="653">In our religious books there are lots of stories about generosity.</sent>
				<sent id ="654">Here is a story on this subject.</sent>
				<sent id ="655">We know the stories of Mahabharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="656">There are stories of great battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="657">There is a story on battle among cousins on the issue of kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="658">The sons of Dhritarashtra were on one side.</sent>
				<sent id ="659">They were one hundred in number including Duryodhana and Dushasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="660">They are known as Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="661">The sons of Dhritarashtra's brother were on the other side.</sent>
				<sent id ="662">So, it was a battle between the Kauravas and the Pandayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="663">The Pandavas won victory in this battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="664">Yudhisthira ascended the throne.</sent>
				<sent id ="665">But he had no malice towards anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="666">He was very kind and generous.</sent>
				<sent id ="667">He was very generous towards the old parents of Duryodhana.</sent>
				<sent id ="668">Duryodhana and his brothers did a lot of injustice towards the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="669">But Dhritarashtra took no measures against it.</sent>
				<sent id ="670">He was blind to his sons unjust action.</sent>
				<sent id ="671">In the battle Bhima killed Duryodhana along with his ninety-nine brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="672">Dhritarashtra could not forget it.</sent>
				<sent id ="673">He wanted to kill Bhima.</sent>
				<sent id ="674">For this he hit upon a plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="675">One day he sent for Bhima.</sent>
				<sent id ="676">Pandavas were aware that Dhritarashtra might do a great harm to their brother Bhima.</sent>
				<sent id ="677">So, they made a figure of Bhima in iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="678">They took it to Dhritarashtra.</sent>
				<sent id ="679">As Dhritarashtra was born blind he could see nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="680">He passed his hands on the iron figure Bhima.</sent>
				<sent id ="681">But Yudhisthira showed his generosity towards Dhritarashtra.</sent>
				<sent id ="682">He sought advice and suggestions from Dhritarashtra before doing anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="683">Gandhari was the wife of Dhritarashtra.</sent>
				<sent id ="684">Pandavas looked after Dhritarashtra and Gandhari.</sent>
				<sent id ="685">They were happy with the care of Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="686">They did not get that much care even from their own children.</sent>
				<sent id ="687">Yudhisthira's generosity is unparallal.</sent>
				<sent id ="688">He was generous like'a sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="689">His act of generosity is- an example to follow.</sent>
				<sent id ="690">We should be modest, polite and generous.</sent>
				<sent id ="691">We should treat people equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="692">We should love all men of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="693">Guru means the person who is elder to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="694">According to scriptures, the person who teaches us knowledge is a Guru or a teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="695">We have many elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="696">But five of them are special.</sent>
				<sent id ="697">They are called panchaguru.</sent>
				<sent id ="698">They are-father, mother, elder brother, teacher and initiator.</sent>
				<sent id ="699">The elders always pray for our welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="700">The importance of guru is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="701">We see the light of this world because of our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="702">It is said in the scriptures that parents hold a very high position.</sent>
				<sent id ="703">They are like gods to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="704">Father is compared to the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="705">The importance of mother is more than that of the heaven- ‘Sargadapi gariasi’.</sent>
				<sent id ="706">No one is comparable to mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="707">Mother gives us life.</sent>
				<sent id ="708">She takes care of us and helps us in our upbringing.</sent>
				<sent id ="709">We drink mother's milk to survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="710">She always prays for out welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="711">Father also help us to grow up.</sent>
				<sent id ="712">We cannot see Ishwara or God.</sent>
				<sent id ="713">Buf We can see our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="714">God manifests himself in our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="715">The elder brother is also our senior.</sent>
				<sent id ="716">In absence of father the elder brother takes care of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="717">He also does lots of things for our welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="718">So, we should have respect for our elder brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="719">We should follow his advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="720">In the Ramayana and the Mahabharata there are mention of showing reverence for elder brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="721">We have blood relation with our parents and elder brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="722">But we do not have blood relation with our teachers and initiators.</sent>
				<sent id ="723">A teacher gives us he light of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="724">He makes us understand what right is and what wrong is.</sent>
				<sent id ="725">Our life becomes perfect with his teachings.</sent>
				<sent id ="726">He is our well-wisher.</sent>
				<sent id ="727">We should obey his advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="728">We should always pay respect to our teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="729">An initiator is also our teacher or guru.</sent>
				<sent id ="730">He teaches us mantra.</sent>
				<sent id ="731">He teaches us religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="732">He explains to us the difference between a religious and an irreligious thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="733">He guides us to the path of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="734">He shows us the way where we can find Ishwara through our acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="735">Initiators hold a very high position in the scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="736">The panchaguru always pray for our welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="737">So, we should respect them.</sent>
				<sent id ="738">We should follow their advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="739">It will do good to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="740">Ishwara manifests himself in our elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="741">So, to respect our elders is to respect Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="742">This pleases Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="743">It is an act of virtue to show devotion to our elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="744">We can become more, virtuous by showing devotion towards our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="745">There are many stories in old scriptures about this.</sent>
				<sent id ="746">Here is given a story of reverence for gurus.</sent>
				<sent id ="747">Long ago students used to stay in their teachers house and read with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="748">There was a teacher named Dhouma.</sent>
				<sent id ="749">He had three students or disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="750">They were named Aruni, Upamannu and Veda.</sent>
				<sent id ="751">Aruni's house was in Panchal.</sent>
				<sent id ="752">Aruni went according to his teacher's order.</sent>
				<sent id ="753">But he could not stop the flow of the water though he tried his best.</sent>
				<sent id ="754">Aruni could not find any other alternative.</sent>
				<sent id ="755">So, he himself lay down on the demarcation line between the plots.</sent>
				<sent id ="756">The sun sef and it became dark.</sent>
				<sent id ="757">But Aruni did not come back.</sent>
				<sent id ="758">Dhouma became anxious.</sent>
				<sent id ="759">He went to look for Aruni.</sent>
				<sent id ="760">The two other disciples Upamannu and Veda were with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="761">They went to that land.</sent>
				<sent id ="762">He shouted loudly calling Aruni, “Aruni, where are you?</sent>
				<sent id ="763">Please come here.</sent>
				<sent id ="764">Aruni heard him and came to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="765">Aruni saluted the teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="766">Then he described the whole thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="767">The teacher became very happy to hear him.</sent>
				<sent id ="768">Now go badt to your country.</sent>
				<sent id ="769">Having been blessed, Aruni went back to his country.</sent>
				<sent id ="770">If one keeps a promise, one's life becomes disciplined.</sent>
				<sent id ="771">We have already learnt this in class three.</sent>
				<sent id ="772">One can shine in life through discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="773">We should keep our promise and follow a disciplined life.</sent>
				<sent id ="774">Those who are good and virtuous keep their promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="775">They never break their promises even they are to suffer a loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="776">Once there was a king in a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="777">One day he was standing on the veranda of his palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="778">People were passing by the path in front of his palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="779">He had a basket full of green papaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="780">The king called his guards and said, Bring the man to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="781">One of the guards brought the man before the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="782">The king asked him, Why are you crying?</sent>
				<sent id ="783">The man replied, “I've no mental peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="784">The king said, “But, why?</sent>
				<sent id ="785">The man said, “I could not sell a single papaya in the market today.</sent>
				<sent id ="786">All the members of my family are waiting for me.</sent>
				<sent id ="787">The king said, Why are they waiting?</sent>
				<sent id ="788">The man said, I shall buy rice for them after selling my papaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="789">The man got the price, made obeisance to the king and went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="790">The king thought for a lotig time.</sent>
				<sent id ="791">then he decided to buy all the unsold goods himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="792">The very next day the king announced it.</sent>
				<sent id ="793">As, usual the buying and selling of things went on.</sent>
				<sent id ="794">The king bought those things which were not sold and thus he Kept his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="795">One day a potter come to the market of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="796">He brought a statue of misfortune to sell there.</sent>
				<sent id ="797">Misfortune, prevails Where the statue of misfortune is kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="798">So Lakshmi, the goddess of fortune, and the statue of misfortune cannot co-exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="799">Lakshmi brings fortune and prosperity.</sent>
				<sent id ="800">At last the potter went to the palace with the statue of misfortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="801">He told the king about the unsold -statue.</sent>
				<sent id ="802">The minister forbade the king to buy the statue of misfortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="803">But the king did not listen to anyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="804">The king kept his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="805">Now the statue of misfortune was kept in the palace with much care.</sent>
				<sent id ="806">Kartik, Ganesfrand Saraswati also left the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="807">Other gods and goddessess also left the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="808">The king noticed everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="809">But he did not complain.</sent>
				<sent id ="810">Then one day the god of religion was also about to leave.</sent>
				<sent id ="811">Now the king stood before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="812">He said, O god of religion, why are you leaving?</sent>
				<sent id ="813">Religion: Because of misfortune everyone went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="814">So, I am leaving too.</sent>
				<sent id ="815">Why would you leave?</sent>
				<sent id ="816">To keep that promise I bought the statue of misfortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="817">To keep a promise is a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="818">As you are the god of religion you should not leave.</sent>
				<sent id ="819">The god of religion was pleased to hear the words of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="820">He did not leave.</sent>
				<sent id ="821">The other gods and goddesses also came back.</sent>
				<sent id ="822">By keeping his promise the king did a religious act.</sent>
				<sent id ="823">To keep a promise is a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="824">It will not do if people only bear it in mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="825">One should also practice keeping a promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="826">To love one’s country is called patriotism.</sent>
				<sent id ="827">It is said in scripture, ‘Janani janmobhumischo sargadapi garioshi’.</sent>
				<sent id ="828">It means one's motherland is greater than heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="829">Patriotism is part of one's religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="830">Every honest and religious persofi loves his country.</sent>
				<sent id ="831">He can even sacrifice his life for the sake of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="832">We shall love our country and work for her development.</sent>
				<sent id ="833">In the ancient times many people became famous for their patriotism.</sent>
				<sent id ="834">Here is a story of a patriotic king mentioned in the Ramayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="835">In ancient period there was a king named Kartobirzo.</sent>
				<sent id ="836">His full name was Kartobirzajurn.</sent>
				<sent id ="837">He became very tired of his duties as a king.</sent>
				<sent id ="838">He wanted to get rid of this tiredness.</sent>
				<sent id ="839">So he went to a lonely place far from the capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="840">The place was very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="841">There was a forest all around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="842">In the middle of the forest there was a beautiful palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="843">Three big lakes were there on the three sides of the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="844">A host of lotuses and lilies were seen dancing in the water of the lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="845">A gentle breeze was blowing there.</sent>
				<sent id ="846">It was an ideal place for a change.</sent>
				<sent id ="847">The king decided to stay there for a few days.</sent>
				<sent id ="848">At that time Ravana was the king of Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="849">He was a tyrant.</sent>
				<sent id ="850">He attacked other kingdoms whenever he got an opportunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="851">Thus he conquered many countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="852">He heard that Kartobirzo was away from his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="853">He took the opportunity and attacked the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="854">The king Kartobirzo came to know that his kingdom was attacked by the enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="855">He was burning with rage.</sent>
				<sent id ="856">He wasted no more time.</sent>
				<sent id ="857">He came back to the capital without delay.</sent>
				<sent id ="858">He went straight to the battle field.</sent>
				<sent id ="859">A heavy battle took place between the two sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="860">Kartobirzo addressed his army in a loud voice, Members of my army!</sent>
				<sent id ="861">If we suffer a defeat, our motherland will lose her independence.</sent>
				<sent id ="862">Fight even at the cost of your life.</sent>
				<sent id ="863">Protect the freedom of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="864">This encouraged the army.</sent>
				<sent id ="865">They fought vigorously.</sent>
				<sent id ="866">At last Kartobirzo won the battle and Ravana was defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="867">Ravana accepted the defeat and asked for Kartobirzo's forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="868">Kartobirzo forgave him on the condition that Ravana would not attack any other country again.</sent>
				<sent id ="869">Ravana went back to his own kingdom with a feeling of humiliation.</sent>
				<sent id ="870">Kartobirzo saved his country.</sent>
				<sent id ="871">Kartobirzo became immortal as a patriot.</sent>
				<sent id ="872">We will also be patriots like Kartobirzo.</sent>
				<sent id ="873">The word respect has different meanings.</sent>
				<sent id ="874">One of the meanings is to have faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="875">The other meanings are devotion, honour, love etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="876">To keep faith in others is to respect others.</sent>
				<sent id ="877">To show honour and love to others means to respect others.</sent>
				<sent id ="878">To respect is a virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="879">It is a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="880">Like respect, tolerance is also a virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="881">Tolerance is also a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="882">Tolerance means showing respect to other religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="883">It.also means to show respect to other's opinion, thought and behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="884">We will not be able to tolerate others if we do not have tolerance.</sent>
				<sent id ="885">Intolerance causes unhappiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="886">Our world is very big.</sent>
				<sent id ="887">Many people live here.</sent>
				<sent id ="888">There are many other countries like our Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="889">Many people live in those countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="890">Like us the people of these countries also follow their religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="891">The name of our religion is Hinduism.</sent>
				<sent id ="892">There are various religions in the world like Buddhism, Christianity, Islam etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="893">The people of Bangladesh mainly follow these four religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="894">Some believe in Hinduism, some in Buddhism, some in Christianity and some in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="895">The majority of the people of Bangladesh are the followers of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="896">All the people of the world belong to the same human race.</sent>
				<sent id ="897">But they do not follow the same religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="898">Their faith in religion and their way of life are different.</sent>
				<sent id ="899">People follow their religion in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="900">They do not worship in the same manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="901">Their way of worshipping differs from religion to religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="902">The Hindus celebrate the name of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="903">They offer flowers, leaves of wood-apples and the sandalwood while worshipping gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="904">The Buddhists worship the Lord Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="905">The Christians glorify the name of God and pray to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="906">The Muslims say their prayers to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="907">The Creator has lots of names.</sent>
				<sent id ="908">Though He has lots of names He is one andjthe same.</sent>
				<sent id ="909">The Hindus go to temple for worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="910">The Buddhists go to pagoda.</sent>
				<sent id ="911">The Christians go to church and the Muslims go to mosques.</sent>
				<sent id ="912">People can pray to God even at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="913">The niain Holy book of the Hindus is the Veda.</sent>
				<sent id ="914">The people of different religions celebrate various religious festivals in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="915">The Hindus have many more religious festivals.</sent>
				<sent id ="916">The Buddhists celebrate Buddha Purnima, Kathin Chibar Dan etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="917">The Christians celebrate Christmas, Easter Saturday, Easter Sunday etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="918">Christmas (Borodin) is the annual celebration of the birthday of Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="919">Christmas is the greatest festival of the Christians.</sent>
				<sent id ="920">The Muslims, followers of Islam, celeberate Eid-ul-fitar, Eid-ul- azhrf, Eid-e-milladunnabi and some other religious festivals.</sent>
				<sent id ="921">So, we can see there are differences among different religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="922">Their holy books, places of worship and religious festivals are different.</sent>
				<sent id ="923">But each religion is true.</sent>
				<sent id ="924">The difference is there only in practicing one's religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="925">Each religion teaches us the same thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="926">We know the name of Ramkrishna Paramhangshadeva.</sent>
				<sent id ="927">He was a great devotee of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="928">He practiced the Hindu religion all through his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="929">But for some time he practiced a different religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="930">Later he realized that all the religions have the same goal.</sent>
				<sent id ="931">He said, We follow different paths to reach the same destination.</sent>
				<sent id ="932">Ramkrishna explained it with a beautiful example.</sent>
				<sent id ="933">He said, We go to the temple of goddess Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="934">But we go there by various means.</sent>
				<sent id ="935">Some go on foot, some by bus and some by boat.</sent>
				<sent id ="936">The ways are different but the destination is the same, the temple of goddess Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="937">Similarly, we go to school but we have various means to reach there.</sent>
				<sent id ="938">Some go there on foot, some by rickshaw and some by boat.</sent>
				<sent id ="939">Our means are different but the destination is the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="940">We follow different religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="941">In fact there is no difference among human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="942">We should show tolerance to other religions and religious festivals.</sent>
				<sent id ="943">We should also attend other religious festivals.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
