<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>4-hind-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:55.124</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">211</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">1717</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">633</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t69">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Wise people give advice to do good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">We will be benefited if we follow their advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">If we don't follow their advice it may cause harm to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Stories with morals deal with subjects that help us distinguish between right and wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">To learn about morality means having moral education.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Moral education is a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Religion imparts moral education.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">To follow moral principles is to follow one's religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Stories with morals teach us principles.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">We can get much advice from these stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">We should remember the pieces of advice and follow them.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Here we will read three stories with morals.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">There was a deep forest in a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">In the forest there was a small pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">A tortoise lived there.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">It was called Kambugrib.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Once two swans were flying over the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">They were thirsty They came down to the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">They quenched their thirst with its water.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">All on a sudden they saw Kambugrib.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The swans saluted Kambugrib and introduced them to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">– My name is Shankat.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">– My name is Bikat.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Kambugrib said in a grave voice-, I am glad to meet you.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">From now on you are my friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Now we should leave, said Shankat.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Come again, replied Kambugrib.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Shankat and Bikat left.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">After that Shankat and Bikat often came.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">They used to gossip all the times.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Thus they became good friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Meanwhile there was a severe drought in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">There was no rain for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Ponds dried up.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The pond where Kambugrib lived was a small one.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Its water almost dried up.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Kambugrib became very anxious.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Friend Shankat then said, We should have patience when we are in distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">We have to think of a way out.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">That's true, it is a wise decision, says Bikat.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">We should try heart and soul to rescue him from the trouble.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The three friends started thinking what to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">After a little while Kambugrib said, I have a plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Tell us!—said Shankat and Bikat together.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Kambugrib then said, Can you arrange a hard stick?</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We can arrange it,—said Bikat.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Kambugrib said, That's fine.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Go and see if there is any pool nearby.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Yes, I know.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">There is a pool nearby.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">There is much water there, replied Shankat.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Then you will fly to that pool. said Kambugrib.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Shankat said, The idea is not bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">But there is a risk in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Why?, said Kambugrib.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">So you will have to be very careful, said Shankat.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The three friends started according to their plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Kambugrib held the stick with the teeth in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Under the sky there was human habitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">People were amazed to see it.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">What was the round thing that two birds carrying in their mouth?</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The people were shouting while the three friends were flying over them.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The people were look Y above and running after them.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Hearing their shout Kambugrib said, What is the shout about?</sent>
				<sent id ="65">No sooner had Kambugrib said it than the stick slipped out of its mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It fell dojwri and met with a tragic death.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Once there were four friends in a village.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">They were very intimate.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">They spent the whole day together.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">They were unhappy for the fact that all of them were very poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They were old enough to do any work.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">But they did not have any work to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">They could not mitigate the sufferings of their families.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">At last they found a way.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">They decided to go to a foreign land and earn money there.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Then they would no more suffer any hardship.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">They started their journey.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">During their journey they came across a river.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">It was a beautiful place surrounded with trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">They saw a saint there.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">They made a bow to the saint and said, You are a pious man.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">You have the powers of faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">You lead a very simple, austere life.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">You can teach us how we can earn our living and overcome our miseries.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Thus we can become happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">He gave them four silver lamps.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Now each of them had one lamp in hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">While walking someone will drop the lamp from his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">You will stop at the place where the lamp will drop.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">You will get lots of riches there.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The four friends touched the feet of the saint as a mark of respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">They took the lamps from him and then started walking.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">While walking one of the friends dropped the lamp from the hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">They started digging the soil of that place as they were told by the saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">After a little while they found a mine of brass.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">We can get a lot of money from this brass.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">It will fulfil our needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">But the three other friends did not like the suggestion.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">One of them started laughing.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He said, You are a fool.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">You are satisfied with a little.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">We want to get more than this.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">We want to get more wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The first friend became sad because the other friends did not listen to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">What else could he do?</sent>
				<sent id ="106">However, he was satisfied with the brass and took it home.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Now the remaining three friends started walking.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">All on a sudden the second of them dropped the lamp from his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">They stopped there and dug the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">This time they found a silver mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The second friend said, We have got plenty of silver.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">So, the second friend went back home with the silver.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Now the third and the fourth of the friends started walking.-</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Suddenly the lamp fell down from the hand of the third friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He became very happy and hugged the fourth friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">They dug the soil and found a gold mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The third friend started dancing in joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">He said to the fourth friend, We ftave become successful We have got gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Gold is more precious than brass or silver.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Now we should go back home with this gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">But the fourth friend was not satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He wanted more precious thing than gold, which could be diamond.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He believed that he would get it.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">So he did not go back home.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">At this the third friend became very sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">But he had nothing to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">However, he went back to his village with the gold he collected.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The fourth friend started walking with the hope of getting diamond.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He went on and on to the north.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">But he became very tired.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">At this very moment he saw a man standing in front of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">He saw in wonder that the person had a wheel on his head.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The wheel was rotating at a great speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The man had an expression of pain all over his face.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The fourth friend was shocked to see him and stopped there.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">He said to the man, Sir, who are you?</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Why are you standing like this?</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Why do you have a wheel on your head?</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Why is the wheel rotating so fast?</sent>
				<sent id ="140">It continued rotating.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">He shouted in fear and said, What a misery!</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Why is the wheel now on my head?</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It is so heavy.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">How unbearable it is!</sent>
				<sent id ="145">He could not move because the wheel was very heavy.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">It kept rotating on his head.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">He started crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The man said, You were very greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">It would have been better if you had not come so far?</sent>
				<sent id ="150">I was very greedy like you.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">I also came with a lamp in the hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">I was punished for my greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">But how can I live here alone?</sent>
				<sent id ="154">How can I live without food?</sent>
				<sent id ="155">the fourth friend asked.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The man replied, You will feel no hunger here.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">You will just feel the unbearable pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">You will also repent for your greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">So saying the man went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">He repent his greed as he remained standing there.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Yudhishthira was the king of Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He was performing a sacrifice rite.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">People from home and abroad attended the ceremony.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">An arrangement of great feast was made.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Lot of valuable things were gathered there.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">These were given to those who asked for these.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Suddenly a mongoose appeared there.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">It started rolling about on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">It was a;strange mongoose.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The mongoose in the court of Yudhishthira People wondered what kind of mongoose that was!</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Being curious the people asked the mongoose, Why do you look like this?</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The mongoose said, There was a poor Brahmin in Kurukshetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He had no greed for money.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He spent his time in studies and religious activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He led his life with whatever he got.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">One day he collected some barley with lots of difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The wife of the Brahmin crushed it and made ground barley.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Then she divided the barley into four parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">At that time a guest came.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The Brahmin gave him water to wash the face and hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He gave him something to sit and water to drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The guest freshened himself up.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Then the Brahmin gave the guest ground barley of his own portion.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">But the small amount could not satisfy the guest's hunger.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">So, his wife gave her portion too.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">But the guest was still hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">So, they gave their son's portion.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Is there anymore?, asked the guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">They looked one another, They had a little more but that was for the daughter-in-law.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">It would cause a great pain if she had to starve.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">But though the daughter-in-law was young she had a big heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">She had alsp learned to serve others.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">She'said, Father, you have taught me that to serve guest is to serve God.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Guest is like Narayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">So, she wanted to give her portion too.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The Brahmin became very happy to hear her.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">So, they gave her portion of ground barley to the guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The guest was satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">What is this!</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Why was the whole atmosphere illuminated?</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Where did the light come from?</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Where is the guest?</sent>
				<sent id ="203">All saw that Dharmaraj (god of religion) was standing in front of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">He appeared before them as he was happy with their worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">He blessed them all.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The mongoose further said, There was a little ground barley left on the plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">I ate that.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">I want to make the rest of my body golden.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">I am trying for that.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Brahmin was greater than the offering of riches in worshipping of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">This is the glory of service.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
