<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>4-hind-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:55.009</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">307</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2506</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">883</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t66">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">He is the master of all, the ruler of all, the absolute shelter to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">We know that Ishwara is one.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">He is second to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">But His power is infinitive.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">They are symbols of various powers of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">There are many gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">They are also mentioned in other Hindu religious scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The form and qualities of gods and goddesses are varied.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">We worship them.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">We worship Ishwara by worshipping gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">What is meant by puja or worship?</sent>
				<sent id ="12">We clean ourselves and sit on an asan (holy seat) to worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">During worship we have to remember deities in holy mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">We also recite mantras or hymns.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">After worship we salute the deities.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The gods and goddesses are satisfied if they are worshipped.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">We pray to them and they fulfil our prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">There is an asan (holy seat) of Lakshmi in every Hindu family.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Lakshmi is worshipped everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Brahma: Brahma is an expression of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He is the god of creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Creation is His function.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">He has created every thing of this universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Brahma has four hands and four faces.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The colour of Brahmas body is fair and red.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Swan is his carriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Red Lotus is his seat.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">There is no fixed date for Brahmas worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He is worshipped on the day he descends on this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">This day is fixed by counting tithi or lunar day and moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Brahma loves red flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">This is why red flowers are offered during his worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Vishnu : Vishnu is an expression of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Ishwara rears everything in the guise of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Vishnu is the protector.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">-He rears and protects everything of this universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Vishnu has four hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">His four hands hold shankha (conch), chakra (wheel), goda (mallet) and padma (lotus).</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The two upper right hands hold wheels and left hand shankha.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The lower left hand holds a goda (mallet) and right hand a lotus.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The colour pf Vishnu's body resembles moon-light Vishnu's carriage is a Garurh bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Shiva can be worshipped any time.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">However, there is a special moment or tithi for Shiva's worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">It is the fourteenth night of.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">the black moon of the month of Falgun.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">This tithi is called Shiva Chaturdashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Shiva worshippers are called Shaivas.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Shiva is satisfied wilh a little offering.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">You eairworship Shiva with a single leaf of wood-apple.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Meaning: For three reasons (Creation, Balance and Destruction) we salute gentle Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">O the Absolute Ishwara, you are the motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">I surrender myself to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Durga: Durga is the goddess of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Durga is the united.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">expression of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">She has many names; for example, Mahamaya, ;Bhagawati, Chandi etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">She is called Durga since she killed a demon called Durgam.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">She destroys durgati or misfortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">This is another reason for naming her as Durga.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The colour of Durga's body is deep yellow like flower 'Atasi'.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Her face is as beautiful as full moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">She has three eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">So she is called trinoyona or the three-eyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Her one eye is in the centre of her forehead.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">She has a curved moon on one side of her head.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">She has ten hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">So she is also called Dashbhuja or ten- handed.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">She has ten weapons in ten hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">She fights with all her weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">She destroys what is ominous.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">She nourishes the good ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Durga killed Mahishasur.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">So she is also named as Mahishmardini.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">She killed many more demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Many more about Durga are described in our holy book Chandi.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Chandipath or recitation from Chandi is done during Durga puja or Durga's worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Durga puja is usually held during the autumn Sharat.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">So it is known as Sharadiya puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">It is also performed in the spring.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Then it is called Basanti (springtime) puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">However, Sharadiya puja is mostly known as Durga puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Durga puja is the foremost religious festival of the Hindu community.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Durga is also known as all-benefactress.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">She is the doer of all good.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">She grants anything prayed to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">All dangers are removed if the name of Durga is remembered.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">At the outset of any journey, one has to utter the words ‘Durga, Durga’.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Saraswati: Saraswati is the goddess of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">She is the wisdom of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Her colour is white.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Her clothes and ornaments are also white.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">White-lotus is her asan or seat.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">She has two hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">One hand holds a book and the other a veena or a kind of lute.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">She is called Veenapani for holding a veena (lute) in her hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">White swan is her carriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">This tithi is called Sripanchami Saraswati puja is meant for learners.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">It is observed in educational institutions with pomp and grandeur.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">We shall worship Saraswati for acquiring knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">We shall meditate Saraswati before we start our study.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">We shall salute her.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">A temple is the abode of deities.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The idols of gods and goddesses are placed there.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Idols of various gods and goddesses are kept in different temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Gods and goddesses are different manifestations of different powers or qualities of a single Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">We worship different gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Among them the main are Vishnu, Durga, Kali, Shiva, Lakshmi, Saraswati etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">There are temples of gods and goddesses at different places of Bangladesh and India.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">There are also temples in Nepal, Srilanka and Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Other countries like America, England also have temples of gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The temple is a sacred place.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">When we go to the temple we feel holiness to our body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Followers visit temples to see gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">They worship there.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">They show their devotion to gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">They say their prayers to their deities.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">So, everyone goes to temples and pays his visits to the gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">A temple is a place of religious activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It is also a place of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">There are many large temples in Bangladesh and India.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Many temples are situated in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Dhakeshwari Temple is the most important of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Statue of goddess Durga is found here.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">This idol of Durga is known as goddess Dhakeshwari.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Prayers take place here every morning, noon and evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">There are some Shiva temples close to its campus.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Dhakeshwari Temple is a pilgrimage of the Hindus.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Every year Durga puja, Shyama puja, Saraswati puja etc. take place here.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">People from different corners, assemble here.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">They come to offer worship and visit the idols.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">On Pahela Baishakh people come to worship in this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">New Year's fair marking the first day of Bangla month is celebrated here.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Kantaji Temple is situated in Dinajpur, King Prannath started building this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">His son Romanath finished the work in 1752 AD.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The temple was dedicated to Rukshminikanta or Kantaji.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Rukshminikanta is another name of Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The statue of Shrikrishna is preserved in the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">This temple is very attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">There are many illustrations of Krishna-leela or Krishna’s amusement, These pictures are drawn in teitaeotta.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The temple is famous for these works of burnt clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">People from home and abroad come to visit the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Devotees worship here everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Temple of Kali at Dakkshineshwar is situated near Calcutta.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The temple is located across the river Ganges.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">In the temple there is the beautiful statue of the goddess Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Here the goddess Kali is called Bhabotarini Ma Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">There are twelve temples of Lord Shiva in its campus.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The temple of Radhakanto is also situated here.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Shriramkrishna was the devotee of Dakkshineshwar's temple of Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Queen Rashmoni was the founder of this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Worship is performed here everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Everyday many people pay visit to this house of deities.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Pilgrimage is a sacred place.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The water, soil and all other things of pilgrimages are sacred.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Mind becomes pure as we visit these places.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Mind finds pious.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">We can get rid of all our sins and achieve virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Mind becomes peace here.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">We get rid of jealousy.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Pilgrimages are the best places for religious activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Pilgrimages are the places of the Munis and saints for meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Pious people want to live in pilgrimages.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">By worship we can achieve virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">By act of giving we can also achieve virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We can achieve all kinds of virtues by visiting pilgrimages.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It gives us heavenly happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">There are many pilgrimages in India and Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Many people come to visit these sacred places.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Such as Goya, Kashi, Mathura, Vrindaban, Haridwar, Nabadwip, Badrinath, Chandranath, Langalbandh etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Goya is situated on the bank of the river Falgu.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">There is the temple of Vishnu in Goya.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The dead ones are redeemed if sacrifices are offered at Vishnu's altar.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He never takes a rebirth.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Sacrifices are offered at Goya for late parents and predecessors.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">To offer pinda or sacrifice in Goya is a sacred duty of a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Kashi is situated in Utter Pradesh of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The other name of Kashi is Baranasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The temple of Shiva and Annapurna are famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Many pious people come to visit this pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Puri is situated in Orissa of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The other name of Puri is Srikhetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The temple of god Jagannath of Puri is famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">It is situated beside the Bay of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">This temple has statues of Jagannath, Suvadra and Balaram.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">It is a virtuous act to visit the statues.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Three idols are put together in the chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">It is said in the scripture, Rahae tu bamanag drishta punarjanma na bidatae.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The procession of the chariot or Rathajatra is held in the Bangla month of Ashar.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The Rathajatra of puri is world famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">People of many countries come to join the fair and Rathajatra.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Mathura is in the state of Uttar Pradesh of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It is a famous pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">It is the birthplace of Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The temple of Shrikrishna is .situated</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Vrindavan is near Mathura.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Shrikrishna passed his boyhood in Vrindavan.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">He did lots of miracles in Vrindavan and Mathura.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Shrikrishna killed king Kansha of Mathura, Kangsha was. a tyrant.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Peace prevailed after Kansha's death in Mathura.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">There are many signs of Krishna's Leelas in Mathura and Vrindavan.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">These two pilgrimages are famous to the Vaishnabs.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Nabadwip is situated beside the river Ganges of West Bengal of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">It is a h opoly place.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The name of Shrichaitanya is related to Nabadwip.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Lot of temples are situated here.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Among them the temple of Gourango Mahaprabhu is the main.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The golden statue of Gaurango is placed here.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Many pious people come here everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Chandranath is a famous pilgrimage in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">It is situated in Sitakunda under Chittagong district.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The temple is on top of a mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">It is also called as Chandranath Dham.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The name of the mountain is called Chanranath following the name of Chandranath.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Chandranath is another name of Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Langalbandh is one of the famous pilgrimages of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It is situated in Narayangonj district.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">It stands on tlje bank of the old Brahmaputra.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">It is one of the main pilgrimages of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">In ancient period Parshurama got rid of his sin by taking a holy bath here.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">He did it for remission of sins of all concerned.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">It is said that his plough stopped here.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">This is how this place came to be known as Langalband.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">This bath is called ashtami snan.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">By taking a bath people can get rid of sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">People from home and abroad come here for holy baths.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">There are many temples in Langalbandh.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">There are statutes of various gods and goddesses in the temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Worship is performed in these temples everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">We are born on this beautiful earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">We also die on this very earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">We live for sometime between our birth and death.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Our body is destroyed after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">But everything does not come to an end.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">We have to go to another world after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">That world is called afterworld.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">All of us have to do much work on this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Many people do good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">And many do bad works.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Good works bring virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">And bad works bring sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Men get heavenly happiness from their virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">And men suffer seriously for their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">A major characteristic of Hindu community is that they believe in rebirth.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Rebirth means to take a birth again.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">We believe that death comes after birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">And there is rebirth after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Our death is the death of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Soul never dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Ishwara lives as a soul inside men.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">So there is no death to soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Men exist as long as soul lives in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Soul neither destroys nor develops.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">We wear clothes on our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">After sometime our clothes wither out.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Then we leave out the torn clothes and wear new ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Our body also withers like clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Soul leaves out a body which has withered away.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Then it accepts a new body.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">This is how a soul changes its abode again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Men wear new clothes leaving out torn ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Likewise the soul accepts a new body leaving out the dead one.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">We are born again and again to reap the harvest of our deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">We win heaven for our good work.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">We go are to hell for our misdeeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">He, who did good works in previous birth, enjoys happiness in the next birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">He, who did misdeeds, suffers.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Then men are redeemed for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Redemption means being one with Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Harvesting of deeds comes to an end in the meditation of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">We do not know the story of previous births.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">But some people can tell about previous births.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Those who can tell about the previous births are called Jatiswar.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">There are many Jatiswars mentioned in the holy scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Kaurava's mother Gandhari was a Jatiswara in her previous birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">She could tell the story of fifty previous births.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">King Bharata was also a Jatiswar.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">He went to forest giving his kingdom to his sons at his old age.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">He meditated there.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">After his meditation he was named as Bharata Muni.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Bharata used to rear a fawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">He loved it very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">He was always engrossed in the thought of this fawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Even he forgot Ishwara at the thought of this animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Many days went on.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Once the moment of Bharata’s death arrived.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">He died thinking of the young deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">He did not remember Bhagaban at the time of his death.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">He remembered the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">So he took his rebirth as a deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Men are reborn as one, whom they remembered at the time of their previous death.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">King Bharata became a deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">But he did not forget anything about his previous birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">He was very unhappy as a deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">He could understand everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">He thought of the deer at the time of his death.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">So he met this consequence.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Then he used to live in close association with sages and saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">There he listened to many holy words.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Then there arrived the time of his death.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">He left out the deer's body in the water of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Then he was born again.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">He earned much virtue listening to scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">He was then born in the house of a Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">This time, too, he did not forget his previous births.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">He started meditating for redemption.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">In the long run he was redeemed.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">So he took no more rebirth.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
