<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>4-hind-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:55.1</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">330</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2483</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">844</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t68">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The word incarnation or Avotar means the one who descends (climbs down).</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Incarnation has been used for a special meaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Here it means the descending of Ishwara in human or some other form.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Ishwara gets down on earth in various forms for special reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Sometimes He assumes the form of an animal and sometimes of a human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Ishwara revealing Himself in various forms is called incarnation.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Why does Ishwara reveal Himself in different forms?</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Ishwara has created us.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">He takes care of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">He controls everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">In this world many people are seen to do wrong to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">They do irreligious practices.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">They do this because they are proud of their strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">They do not fear anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">No one can control them.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">They are very wicked.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">For them good people suffer.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">All their bad deeds become a threat.to</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Then Ishwara comes down on the §arth as a saviour of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">He subdues the wicked people.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He comes to protect the good people and establishes religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Then peace prevails in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Good people heave a sigh of relief.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">As an incarnation Ishwara does good things to the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Bad people create problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">They oppress the innocent.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Ishwara saves people from their oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Bhagaban Vishnu is known to have ten incarnations.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Now we are going to learn about Bamana and Parshurama.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Bhagaban Vishnu had ten incarnations.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Bamana incarnation is the fifth among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Long ago there was a king named Bali.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">He was the king of demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">His father's name was Purachan.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">His grandfather's name was Haripada Prahallad.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Bali-was in deep meditation and got great strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">That meant no one can beat him in the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He defeated all in the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">He won swarga (the heaven), martya (the earth) and patal (the underworld).</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The gods were driven out of the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Bali then became the king of heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The gods were passing a very bad time.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">They were afraid of Bali.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">They spent sleepless nights and went .without</sent>
				<sent id ="45">One day the gods went to Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">They told Vishnu about their misery.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Vishnu assured the gods of his willingness to help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The gods would regain the kingdom of heaven, he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Vishnu kept his word.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">He was born as the son of Kashyap and Aditi.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">He became stronger day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">But he was very small in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Because of his size he was known as Bamana, meaning dwarf.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">At that time Bali started worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">He offered many things in that worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">He gave people whatever they wanted.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Bamana took this opportunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">One day Bamana went to Bali and asked for three steps of land from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Only a piece of three steps of land!</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Bali smiled and agreed to give it to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Suddenly Bamana turned into a giant.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He placed one foot in the heaven and the other foot on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">A third foot came out of his navel.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">There was no room to place it.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">So, he put his third foot on Ball's head.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He kept on pressing the foot against the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Bali could no more raise his head.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Bamana, one of the incarnations of Bhagaban Vishnu, subdued Bali.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Peace prevailed in the heaven and on the ealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">There are four yugas or ages mentioned in the Puranas.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They are the Satya, the Treta, the Dapar and the Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Parshurama was born during the Treta age.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">His real name was Bhrigurama.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">He had an axe in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">For this reason he was known by this name.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Parshurama was our sixth incarnation.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">He was born in a Brahmin family.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">His father's name was Jamadagni and mother's name was Renuka.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Parshurama was the youngest among the five sons of his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The Kshatriya kings became more powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">They became tyrants.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">They did not follow the principles of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">They oppressed the subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">They also oppressed the Brahmins.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The Brahmins lost their glory.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">At that time Parshurama was born.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Parshurama was strong and spirited since his boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">He was very attentive in reading scriptures and in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">He was also interested in archery.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He protested against any kind of injustice and sought a remedy for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">He used to play and take physical exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">He also did his studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Parshurama was Mahadeva's worshipper.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">He pleased Mahadeva through deep meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Mahadeva granted him two boons.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">No one could kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">He would not die of any kind of diseases either.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The other boon was an axe.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">He always had an axe in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">This axe was his weapon.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">During that age there was a famous king there.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">His name was Kartobirzarjurn.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">In short Kartobirzo.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">One day he went for hunting.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Suddenly he reached a tapoban, the grove of a saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">It was the abode of saint Jamadagni.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Jamodogni honoured the king as guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He took good care of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">But at last there was a quarrel between the king and Jamodogni.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Jamadagni had a wishing-cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This cow could fulfil any wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Kartobirzo wanted the wishing-cow from the saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">But the saint did not want to give it.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">At that time he was in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The saint's sons were not present in the tapoban.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Taking advantage of the situation Kartobirzo killed Jamadagni.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">When Parshurama came back to the tapoban he saw nothing but disaster there.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">His father was killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">He became very angry to see the situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He wanted to take revenge of his father's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">He had the dreadful axe in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He killed Kartobirzo with the axe.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">But this was not enough to satisfy him.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">He was angry with all other Kshatriya kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">He attacked them one after another and killed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">There was a sea of blood all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Prashurama was at war with every Kshatriya king.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">He fought twenty one battles and won each of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">No Kshatriya king survived in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Thus the world saw the end of the tyrant kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The battle, of Parshurama was over.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">He went to the mythological mountain range of Mahendra.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">He became absorbed in meditation there.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Peace prevailed again on this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Religion became victorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">In ancient time there lived many pious persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">They used to be absorbed in divine meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">They had no greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">They won over greed through their meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">They brought hunger and thirst under their control.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">They starved while they meditated.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">They acquired divine knowledge through meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">They perceived Ishwara They gathered lots of knowledge on religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">They are called Munis or sages.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Munis are the wisest of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">They knew everything about the present They could tell about the past and the future.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">That means they could see the three periods of life - past, present and future.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">So, they are called trikalagga or those who know about the three worlds.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Some of the Munis were called saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Saints composed the Vedic mantra.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The Vedic hymns are called Mantra.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Vedic Mantras are but the results of the meditation of some Munis.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Those who pronounced Veclic Mantras are called Rhishis or Saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The saints announced that the words of Veda are true.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">They said about the importance of Knowledge and meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">All saints are Munis but all Munis are not Saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Saints are divided into seven categories.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">These are Brahmarshi, Devarshi, Maharshi, Paramarshi, Kandarshi, Srutarshi and Rajarshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Brahmarshi - Those who have special knowledge of Brahma or Ishwara are called Brahmarshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">For example - Basistha.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Devarshi - He who is a saint as well as a god is called Devarshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Devarshi lives in the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">For example - Narada.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Maharshi - Maharshi means the chief saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">He is the greatest among the saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">For example - Vyasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Paramarshi - He who has seen or expreinced the Almightly Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">For example - Pailo.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Kandarshi - Veda has two main parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">One part deals with work and the other part with knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">He who knows about one of the parts of the Vedas is called Kandarshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">For example - Jaimini.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Jaimini explained the part of the Veda that deals with the work.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Srutarshi - Veda is the words of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Saints got Veda mantra through meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">But all saints did not get Veda mantras in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Some of them heard those mantras from other saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Those who gained Veda mantras by hearing other saints are called Srutarshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">For example - Subrata.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Rajarshi - He who is a saint as well as a king is called Rajarshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He is as knowledgeable as a saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He behaves like a saint although he is a king.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">For example - King Janaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Munis and saints have lots of virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">They always pray for the welfare of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">They can sacrifice their lives for the .welfare of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">We learn lots of things that help us gain knowledge from Munis and saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">They teach us how to do good to all of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">They are all great.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">We will now tell about two saints here.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Viswamitra was a famous saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">His grandfather's name was Kushik.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Viswamitra was also known as Kaushik.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Viswamitra's father's name was Gadhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Gadhi was the king of Kannyakubja.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Viswamitra was born in the Kshatriya family.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">He was a prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">He was a king too.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Viswamitra earned the power of a Brahmin by meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">As Brahma granted him a boon he became Rajarshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Later he became saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">At last he became Brahmarshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Lots of things happened in the life of Viswamitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Here is a story of Viswamitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Once Viswamitra went a-hunting.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">He had many warriors with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Everyone became very tired.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">They were thirsty.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Basistha's hermitage was nearby.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Viswamitra went to Basistha's hermitage.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Basistha was a great saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">He had a Kamadhenu or a wishing-cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Kamadhenu could fulfill any wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Basistha sought help of the Kamadhenu.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He made arrangements of everyone's meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Delicious items were there.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Viswamitra and his army took the food to their heart's content and expressed their satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Now they felt fresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Viswamitra was very surprised to see the power of the Kamadhenu.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">He thought that he should have the Kamadhenu.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">He expressed his desire to Basistha.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">In return he wanted to give him one thousand cows.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">But Basistha did not agree to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Viswamitra's army wanted to have it by force.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The Kamadhenu started lowing and lots of warriors were created from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">A great battle took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Viswamitra's army was defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Now Viswamitra attacked Basistha.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">He threw arrows one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">But nothing happened to Basistha.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">He destroyed the arrows of Viswamitra with Brahma Danda.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Viswamitra was defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Many of his warriors were killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Viswamitra was now all alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">He was very proud of his strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">He used to think that the Kshatriyas were the most powerful ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The Kshatriyas used to fight with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">They conquered different kingdoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">On the other hand the Brahmins used to meditate.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The Kshatriyas had the power of weapons whereas the Brahmins had the power of meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">This power of meditation won over the power of weapon.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Viswamitra left his kingdom and devoted himself to meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">He must gain the power of a Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">He did hard meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">He was blessed with the power of a Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">He became Brahmarshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Viswamitra then lived in the Tapoban.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">He was very famous as a saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Everyone respected him.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Again everyone was afraid of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">At that time demons were tyrant.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">They used to create obstacles during worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Demons were there in Viswamitra's Tapoban too.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">One day Viswamitra went to Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Dasharatha was the king of Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Rama, Lakshmana, Bharata and Shatrughna were his sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">He took Rama and Lakshmana with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">He taught them archery during the journey.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Rama and Lakshmana destroyed the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Peace prevailed there in the Tapoban again.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">One could worship one's gods without fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Then Viswamitra took Rama and Lakshmana to Mithila.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">At that time Mithila was ruled by the king Janaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Janaka had a daughter named Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Rama broke the Haradhanu and married Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Lakshmana got married to Urmila, sister of Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Viswamitra did a noble deed by arranging this marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The marriage between Rama and Sita brought about immense good to the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Viswamitra did many noble deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">He was a Khatrriya but he gained the power of a Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">He became saint through hard meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">We must remember and adore Saint Viswamitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Long, long ago there was the Vedic Age there.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">A lot of practice of knowledge was done during that age.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Both men and women practiced knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">We find many saints-in the Vedas, for example, Ghosha, Bishabara, Apala, Lopamudra and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Knowledge about Brahma was regarded as the greatest of all disciplines.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Many women studied this.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Among them Gargi was very well-known.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Gargi started her education career with her father.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">He inspired Gargi to acquire knowledge about Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Gargi was very intelligent.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">She continue her study.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">In course of time she became an expert in having knowledge about Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">So, she was called defender of Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">There is a story of Gargi's knowledge about Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Once Janaka the king of Mithila, arranged a act jaga.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Many wise people came from all over the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Many sages and saints came there.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Learned Gargi was also present there.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Many things were donated during this act of sacrificial rite.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">So, it was called Bahu Dakshin Jaggya.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">While donating Janaka thought many wise people had come here.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">They were expert in having knowledge about Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">But he should know who the best was.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">On hearing the declaration of Janaka everyone became interested at first.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">But when they heard the condition they became less interested.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Who was going to top the list of persons having the best knowledge about Brahma?</sent>
				<sent id ="299">All of them became thoughtful.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Then a Maharshi named Jaggabalko stood.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">He wanted to have the one thousand cows.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">He claimed himself to be the greatest.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">But the others did^not agree to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Jaggabalko debated with many of them on the knowledge about Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Jaggabalko was asked lots of questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">He gave beautiful answers to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Others accepted Jaggabalko as the greatest.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">At that time Gargi stood up.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">She did not accept Jaggabalko as (the greatest.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">She started questioning Jaggabalko.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Jaggabalko also gave answer to those.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Gargi started questioning difficult subjects gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Then Jaggabalko stopped Gargi.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">He said, in Veda there had been instructions about the limitation of questioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">It was called Vedic Anushashana that meant Vedic restriction.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">One should not disobey it.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">So, Gargi stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">She did not question any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Jaggabalko gave answer to all of Gargi's questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">So, Jaggabalko became the greatest.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">He accepted Rajarshi Janaka's gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">But this proved that Gargi was also very intelligent.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Here we get a picture of Gargi's deep knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Everyone congratulated her.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Everyone accepted Gargi as one having knowledge about Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Knowledge is the best wealth in one's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">We acknowledge those who contributed to the field of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">We admire them.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Gargi was born long ago and contributed to the field of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Defender of Brahma the learned Gargi is remembered by us.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
