<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>4-islam-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:55.171</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">214</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2115</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">713</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t71">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Allah Ta'ala has created us.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">We are alive at His Mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">He has created everything for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">And He has created us to remain loyal to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Ibadat means shwoing loyalty to Allah, obedience to Allah, to obey His orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Ibadat means to abide by the orders of Allah and His Rasuls.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">To do good deeds is also ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Allah is pleased with those who do ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">We will get Allah's mercy and forgiveness both here and hereafter if we do ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Allah says, Allah loves them who keep themselves physically clean and mentally pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Our great Prophet says, Purity is part of Iman (faith).</sent>
				<sent id ="12">One needs to be clean and pure to perform salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">To remain clean and pure is called taharat.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Taharat means cleanliness and purity.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Those who keep themselves pure and clean, put on clean clothes are loved by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In the Holy Qura'n Allah has commanded us to make wuzu before starting salat (namaz).</sent>
				<sent id ="17">There are many rules to follow for keeping oneself clean and pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Wuzu is the best of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Salat cannot be offered without wuzu.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The compulsory (farz) items of wuzu (ablution) are as follows:</sent>
				<sent id ="21">To wash face thoroughly;</sent>
				<sent id ="22">To wash the hands well from the tips of the fingers upto the elbow;</sent>
				<sent id ="23">To rub lightly at least over one-fourth of the hair of the head;</sent>
				<sent id ="24">To wash the feet upto the ankles.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Moreover, there are some other things to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">To make niyat before making wuzu;</sent>
				<sent id ="27">To begin wuzu by saying Bishmillah; To brush the teeth;</sent>
				<sent id ="28">To wash the hands well upto the wrists;</sent>
				<sent id ="29">To clean the mouth by gargling;</sent>
				<sent id ="30">To clean the nostrils with a little water giving into them;</sent>
				<sent id ="31">(10) To maintain the serial in washing the parts of the body during wuzu.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">We will observe them and learn how wuzu is made perfectly.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The causes of losing wuzu: Due to various causes, wuzu is lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">We have to be very careful about these causes.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Wuzu is lost for the following causes:</sent>
				<sent id ="36">If any thing comes out through the urinary passage or anus;</sent>
				<sent id ="37">If there is mouthful of vomiting;</sent>
				<sent id ="38">If one sleeps leaning against something or lying on something;</sent>
				<sent id ="39">If one becomes senseless;</sent>
				<sent id ="40">If blood or pus comes out rolling from a wound;</sent>
				<sent id ="41">If one laughs loudly at salat (namaz);</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Salat cannot be offered or the Holy Quran must not be touched without wuzu.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">We must be careful of this.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">For a healthy mind and healthy body, we need purity and cleanliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The body becomes dirty and unclean for doing various works.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We then feel bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Taking bath is the best way to remove the dirt and impurity.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">To wash the whole body with water is called to have bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">If we have bath, it removes bad smell caused by sweating.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">We feel fresh bodily and mentaly after having bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">It encourages us to work with a fresh mind and body.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Before taking bath, we will have to wash our hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Then we will clean our body if there is any dirt or unclean things.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">We will rinse our mouth and gargle three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">We will also clean the nostrils by giving a little water inside them thrice.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Then we will wash the whole body thrice.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">In this way we will take bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The farz (compulsory) items of taking bath: In bathing, there are three farz (compulsory) items.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">We can keep a sound body if we take bath regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">To have bath is an order of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">It is also an act of ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The Great Prophet (Sm) has emphasized to perform the farz salat in a jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">But nobody knew how people should be called to this jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Some said that they would ring bell to call people at the time of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Some said to blow trumpet to call them.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Some others advised to light fire, and many other suggestions also came.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">But the Prophet (Sm) did not like any of these suggetions.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It was late at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Hazrat Abdullah Ibn Zaid, a companion of the Holy Prophet (Sm), was in deep sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Then he heard in a dream that an angel uttered the words of Ajan.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">In the morning, he narrated the words of Ajan to the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="72">It was a matter of wonder that Hazrat Umar (R) also dreamt the same dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The Prophet (Sm) liked the words of Ajan very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">He understood that these were revealed at the direction of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He told Hazrat Bilal (R) to say particular call to attend the jamaat of salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">One who performs Ajan is called Muazzin.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Ajan is to call people to the jamaat of salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">And Iqamat is the announcement of the start of the salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The words of Iqamat are the same as words of Ajan.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It means salat has already been started.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The series of dua written in the Holy Qura'n and Hadiths are called Dua Masura.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Dua Masura is also read outside salat in different situations.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The last important part of salat is to say salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Meaning: Peace be on you and also the mercy of Allah be on you.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The best time for the granting of munazat is at the end of salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Any good dua may be said during this time.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">There are many munazats in the Holy Qura'n and Hadiths.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">A short and beautiful munazat is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Salat or Namaz is the most important ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">There are some rules to follow in salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Before starting salat we have to maitain seven farz (compulsory) things.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">These are called ahkam of salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">If we do not maintain these ahkams rightly, our salat will not be accepted.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The female must cover the whole body except the face, hands upto wrist and feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The Qiblah is situated to the west from our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">So we offer salat facing towards the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Niyat means to intend or to decide.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Before starting every salat one must make niyat of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">A salat becomes unacceptable if it is not offered in the right time.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It is Allah's order to perform salat in the right time.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Salat is not acceptable if it is not performed in the right time.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Let us look at the waqts (times) of different salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The time of it is over just before the moment of the sunrise.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It is over before the moment of the sun- set.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Maghrib : The time of Maghrib starts from just after the setting of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">It is over as soon as the reddish tinge of the sun fades away.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Isha : The time of Isha starts as the time of Marghrib ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The time for Isha continues upto the moment before the time of Fazr.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">But it is better to offer Isha in the first half of the night.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">There are seven farz items in salat, which are called arkans in salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">To start saying Takbir-e-Tahrima (i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Performing salat making qiam (i.e. by standing).</sent>
				<sent id ="113">(If one is unable to stand, one can perform salat in a sitting position.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Even one can perform salat lying in bed if one is unable to sit.)</sent>
				<sent id ="115">To read a part of the Holy Quran in salat (It is called Kiraat).</sent>
				<sent id ="116">To do ruku.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">To do sizdah.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">To complete salat by saying salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">If any of these arkans is not done, salat will not be pertect.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">We should be very careful while offering them.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">We know that salat is the best of ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">To perform salat five times a day is farz (compulsory).</sent>
				<sent id ="123">How to Perform Salat?</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Our Prophet (Sm) used to make wuzu (ablution) after brashing teeth with a miswak.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">He would make niyat facing towards the Qiblah.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He instructed women to join the hands upon the chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Then he would read Aujubillahi minash shaitwanir rajeem and Bismillaahir rahmaanir raheem.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Then he would read sura Fatiha and some part (ayats) from the Holy Qura'n.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">After this, saying Allahu Akbar he would do his ruku.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">In ruku, he would read subhana rabbial ajeem (minimum three times).</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Then he would again stand erect and saying samiallahuliman hamidah.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">He would rise and stand again uttering Allahu Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The Holy Prophet (Sm) used to perform compulsory salat in jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">We also should perform salat in jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The Jumua day (i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Friday) is the best day of the week.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">In mosques, jamaats of salat are held five times a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">There the people of the same locality gather to offer farz (compulsory) salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Thus they meet each other and know about themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">It creates chances to help each other in times of problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Four rakaats salat of Ba'dal Jumuah is offered after the farz salat as sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Moreover, if one gets time it is good for him to offer nafl (extra) Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Salatul Jumuah cannot be offered without a jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Two Ajans are held for Salatul Jumuah.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">After the people have gathered, another Ajan is given for this salat inside the mosque.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">At this time, the Imam is sitting on the mimbar (a small platform).</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In between the two khutbas he sits for a very short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Khutba means a speech.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In the Khutba various aspects of Islam are discussed.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It is wajib (obligatory) to listen to the Khutba.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Salatul Jumuah consists of ten rakaats in total.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Many rewards for the Salatul Jumuah are narrated in the Holy Hadiths.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The second man will have the reward of sacrificing a cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Then the third one will have the reward of sacrificing a goat.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Eid means joys and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Every year the Muslims of the world celebrate the two Eids.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">There are two great religious festivals for the Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The first is called the Eidul Fitr.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The second is called the Eid-ul-Adha.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Everybody share joys and happiness in the social intercourse.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">It is wajib to offer salatul Eid.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The Holy Prophet (Sm) says, Every nation has its own religious festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Ours is the Holy Eid.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The Salatul Eid is a salat of two rakaats.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">It is to be performed following an Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">At first we shall stand in rows behind an Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">We shall make niyat of the salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">We shall then say the words of sana.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Now following the Imam we shall say takbir (i.e. Allahu Akbar) three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">At the first two times of this takbir we shall not join the hands together.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">After the third takbir, we shall again join the hands on the navel.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">After this, he will perform ruku and sizdah.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">We shall do the same following him.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He then will loudly say the takbir (i.e. Allahu Akbar) three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">We shall also follow the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Then we shall perform ruku after saying takbir (i.e. Allahu Akbar) at the fourth time.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">After this, we shall perform sizdah as we do in other salats.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">After the end of the salat, the Imam will offer two Khutbas.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">To listen to the Khutbas is wazib.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The first day of the month of Shawal is fixed for the Eidul-Fitr.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">It comes after the fasting in Ramazan.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Eid means joys and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Fitr means to break fasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">It is not only a day of joys and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Everbody has to try to make widows and orphans happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">On this day fitra (charity) is to be given by the rich to the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">It is made wazib to pay fitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">To keep fasting on the Eid day is made haram (forbidden).</sent>
				<sent id ="189">To take bath in the morning;</sent>
				<sent id ="190">To use otto;</sent>
				<sent id ="191">To wear clean clothes;</sent>
				<sent id ="192">To take some sort of sweet-meat;</sent>
				<sent id ="193">To perform Salatul Eidul Fitr at the Eidgah.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">It is wazib to offer two rakaats of Salatul Eidul Fitr with an Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">In this Salat there are six additional wazib takbirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">After offering two rakaats of Salat the Imam delivers two Khutbas.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Khutba means speech.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">It is made wazib to listen to the Khutba.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">During the Khutbas talking is forbidden.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The second Eid of the year is called Eidul Adha.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Adha means sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">In the light of Islam this day is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">The 10th Zilhajj is fixed for Eidul Adha.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Then we have to go to attend the jamaat of wazib Salat at the Eidgah.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The Imam will deliver two Khutbas after the salat is ended.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">It is made wazib to listen to the Khutba.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">It is good not to eat anything before this salat on this day.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">But on the day of Eidul Fitr, takbir should be read silently.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The matter of the sacrifice of animals comes after the end of the salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">In this way all can share the joys of Eid with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">This helps grow a good social relation.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">We shall implement this great lesson of Eid in our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">We shall enjoy this Eid all together.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">We shall spread over this lesson in the society.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
