<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>4-islam-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:55.21</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">237</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2126</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">747</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t73">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Akhlaq is an Arabic word.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">As for example, good character, good nature, good qualities etc. come under Akhlaq-e-Hameeda.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The Great Prophet (Sm) says: The greatest gift of Allah to man is good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Everybody loves the man who speaks sweetly, behaves nicely and does good work.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Good Akhlaq of children brings reputation for their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Everybody prays to Allah for this kind of good children.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Teachers of a school love those students who have nice behaviour and conduct.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">If a man has good character, he lives a happy life in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">He will also get salvation hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">To become a true mumin, a man must have good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The Great Prophet (Sm) says: True mumins are those who have good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Akhlaq-e-Jameema is that which is hated by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Bad character, bad nature, bad habit etc. belong to Akhlaq-e-Zameema.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Everybody hates his misdeeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Nobody loves those who do these bad deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Allah, the Great, does not love them too.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Even their parents and relatives do not love them.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">All the people of the society hate them.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">For a good character one should have good qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The Character of our beloved Prophet Muhammadur Rasulullah (Sm) was the best.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">We are his followers.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">We must mould our character in his model.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">You please make my character beautiful too.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">We all will pray to Allah for a beautiful character.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Our parents are the nearest persons to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">They bring up us with love and affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">They are to suffer much for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">They make sacrifice for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">They feed us even by starving themselves if necessay.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">At the time of our illness they give us nursing day and night.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">They pray to Allah for our recovery from illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">It is our duty to listen to them and to behave well with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Allah Ta'ala says: You must pray only to me and behave well with the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Of whom will I take care more?</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The Great Prophet (Sm) said: Take care of your mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">And three times the Prophet (Sm) replied: Take care of your mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">We will also respect our parents and pray to Allah for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Allah has ordered us to pray to Him for our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">There is one dua for this: Rabbir hamhuma kama rabbayani sagira.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">We will listen to our parents, obey their orders and behave well with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">We will never hurt them.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">We will take care of them and pray to Allah for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Teachers are also our near and dear ones as our parents are.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The parents bring up us.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Teachers give us the light of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">They teach us how to read and write.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">We learn from them about different subjects of knowledge and science.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">They build up us as real human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">We will also honour them as we do to our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Our Great Prophet (Sm) came as a teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Teaching is a very honourable and noble profession.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The Great Prophet (Sm) established a school in Makkah named Darul Arkam.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">He was a great teacher there.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">He would pay respect to the scholars and teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">He set them free in exchange of teaching some Muslims of Madinah.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">A teacher not only teaches us how to read and write.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">His son would study under a teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He would respect his teacher very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">He obeyed him and took care of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Then the emperor called for the teacher to his court.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The teacher got afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He thought that he oredered the emperor's son to pour water on his feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Perhaps for that reason the emperor might be angry with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The teacher met the emperor.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The emperor told him that his son seemed that he had not learnt good manners.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He only poured water on your feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Why did he not clean your feet with his hands?</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The teacher became surprised hearing the words of the emperor.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">His mind was filled with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">He said: Your majesty, you are really great.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">You have enhanced the honour of a teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">We will also respect our teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">We will say salam to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">We will obey their orders and forbiddings.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">We will study attentively.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Our parents love us.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The elder brothers and sisters give us their affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The grandfathers and the grandmothers also have their affection for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In childhood days they caressed us.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">They brought up us.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The teachers of the school teach us and love us.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">We will honour them all.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">We all will obey them.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The senior students and the neighbours also love us.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">They are honourable persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">We will honour them too.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">At home there are servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">We will honour them.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">We will behave well with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In buses, trains, launches, steamers etc. many old men travel.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Sometime for want of seats they keep standing.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Then we will stand up and leave the seats for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">They will be pleased at this and will pray to Allah for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">We will love our younger brothers and sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">We will teach them good lessons.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The Great Prophet (Sm) would love the youngers very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">He honoured the elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Allah becomes pleased if one honours the elders and love the youngers.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">We all will honour the elders and love the youngers.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Then we will be able to live togther peacefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Those who live around us are our neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The hostel-mates in a hostel are also like the neighbours to a hostel boarder.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">We all live together in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">There are many advantages to live in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">One is benifited by the others and gets help at times of danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">If any danger comes, the neighbours come forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">We will behave well with the neighbours and live together.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">We will help them at the time of danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">When they are ill, we will take care of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">We will give food and clothes to the poor neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">We will also help them giving money.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">We will never do anything by which the neighbours may suffer.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">We will not throw rubbish here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">We will not listen to the radio and casette with high sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">As a result, love and good relationship will grow among the neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">If we have a bad neighbour, yet we will behave well with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Imam Abu Hanifa (Ra) would remain devoted to gathering knowledge and engaged in ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">His nearest neighbour was a cobbler.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">He was addicted to singing loudly and making hue and cry.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">At this the Imam became annoyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">One day he heard no hue and cry.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The Imam became anxious.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He thought enquire the man was in danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">He tried to about him.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The Imam got him released on bail under his responsibility.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The cobbler became ashamed of his bad conduct.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He begged pardon to the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">After that he never created any problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">By showing good behaviour even a bad neighbour becomes a good one.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">We will behave well with a neighbour.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">At times of danger, we will help him.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">We will not do any harm to the neighbour's pet animals and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">We will not do any harm to his plants and trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">We will never do anything for which a neighbour falls in difficulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Nursing the patient is a principle of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The Great Prophet (Sm) gave special importance to nursing patients.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Sometimes we fall ill.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">An ill man becomes weak and feels helpless.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He feels unwell.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">They should manage medical treatment for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">One old woman was the neighbour of the Great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Every day she would spread thorns on his way.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">He himself went to her house to know about her.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">He found that the old woman was really ill.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Then he nursed her, and she was recovered.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The old woman became ashamed of her misdeed.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">From then she never put thorns on the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Every day we meet many people.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">We will say salam to whom we meet and ask them how they are.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">We will ask: How are you?</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Our beloved Prophet (Sm) would sit turning his face towards his sahabis (followers) after salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">He then would ask them how they were.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">He tried to remove the problem if they had any.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">To speak the truth is a great virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The man who speaks the truth is called a truthful man.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Everybody trusts and loves a truthful man.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The truthful man is also dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The Great Prophet (Sm) was a truthful man from his boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">So he was dear to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">No body trusts or loves him who tells a lie.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Telling lies is the root of all sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Allah becomes displeased with him who tells lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The Great Prophet (Sm) says: Truth sets a man free and lie ruins him.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">He also says: Truth leads a man to the path of virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">It is not possible for me to give up all these bad deeds altogether.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">You tell me to give up one bad deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The Great Prophet (Sm) told him not to tell lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The man said: It is a very easy task.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Keeping promise means to act according to the given commitment.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Every foley trusts and like one who keeps words or promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Allah Ta'ala becomes pleased with the person who keeps words.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The Prophet (Sm) says: He is not a religious man who does not keep words.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The Holy Prophet (Sm) and his companions used to keep promise at any cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">There was a ruler in a province of Iran.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">His name was Hormuzan.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">He was a tyrant and betrayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">In a battle, he was arrested by a band of Muslim soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He was brought before Caliph Umar (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Umar (R) said, O Hormuzan, you killed many Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">You also destroyed many houses of the inncocent people.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Death sentence is the punishment for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Do you have anything to say before death?</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Hormuzan wanted water to drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">He was given water.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Umar (R) gave him word.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The Muslim soldiers wanted to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">But Umar (R) said, No, that cannot be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The word of a Muslim is much valuable.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">I have to keep my commitment even if I have to pay a high price.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Hormuzan cannot be killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">He is now free.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Hormuzan became charmed at this high ideal of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He then embraced Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Not to be greedy is a fine virtue of character.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Greed becomes a cause of a man's sufferings, sorrows and unhappiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Man is engaged in various kinds of bad deeds and vices due to greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The Holy Prophet (Sm) says: Beware of greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Greed destroyed your former generations.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The Divine Book Jabur was revealed on Daud (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="200">His voice was very sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He could recite the Revealed Book sweetly.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Every Saturday even sea-fish used to come to the shore to hear it from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Saturday was their day of Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">It was forbidden by Allah to catch fish on that day.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">But some greedy people did not pay heed to this.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">On that day they set a trap and caught fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Allah then sent punishment on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">They are destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It is said, Greed begets sin and sin begets death.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">We shall keep ourselves away from the greed of bad deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Many a time we waste many things.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">To misuse something needlessy is called wastage.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">It is a great sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Allah says: Those who make wastage are the brothers of satan.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">We keep the light and the fan on and keep the water tap open uselessly.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It causes much wastage.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Some keeps the gas oven burning to save a match stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Have we ever thought of how much valuable gas is wasted in this way?</sent>
				<sent id ="219">All these are wastage.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Gas, water-all these are the gifts of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">We shall have to answer to Him for these acts of wastage.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Some people play with fireworks and crackers which is also wasting away of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Again, this causes many dangers like getting fire in houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Some fire the haystacks out of fun which may cause accidents.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">This is a kind of wastage.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Some smoke cigarettes which is also wastage.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">It also affects our health badly.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">We'll obey Allah's all orders, And never do wastage of any kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Not to backbite is a special virtue of character.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Making gibat is a heinous crime just like eating the flesh of a dead brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">To find out faults with others is a bad deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Those who are good people never go to find out faults with other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">But those who are bad people find out faults with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Allah says: Do not find out faults with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Gibat creates enmity with each other and ruins peace in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">No one likes a person who backbites other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">In this respect the Holy Prophet (Sm) says: The backbiter will not enter heaven.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
