<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>4-islam-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:55.148</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">289</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2407</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">815</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">veryEasy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t70">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The meaning of Iman is faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">As a religion, Islam has some particular basic aspects of its own.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">To have faith in these aspects is called Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The aspects which are related to Iman are called Aqaid.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Aqaid is the plural form of Aqida.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">To become a true Muslim a man must have pure Iman and Aqaid.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">To have Iman, we must know about Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">He is the creator of water, air, fire and soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">He is the creator of lakes and rivers, seas and oceans, hills and mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">He is the creator of plants and trees, flowers and fruits, woods and forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Allah is the creator of all Who is Allah, the Great?</sent>
				<sent id ="12">natural things and beings we see on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">It is He who looks after us.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">We will have to return to Him after our death.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Allah is Great.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">He has no beginning and no end.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">He is all Kind and Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">We offer our ibadat (loyalty) only to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">We can feel the love of mother but we can not see it.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">So is the case with Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Allah has His existence but we can not see Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">He does not have any shape or form.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">He is one and unique.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">There is none who is equal to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Allah is Khaliq.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The word Khaliq means creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">All the things of the universe are created by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He is Great.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The sun and the moon give us light.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Rain falls from the clouds in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Crops and vegetables grow in the fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">We get food from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Other creatures also get food from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">All these are the creations of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">We live in an environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">There are also flowers and fruits, animals, birds and insects in our environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">We have to keep our environment neat and clean and beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">We shall make a beautiful life.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">All the things in the sky and on earth are the creations of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">We live by His kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">He brings us up.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">He is most merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Allah is Malik.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Malik means lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Allah is the lord of all things and beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">He is the Owner of everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">We see many big and small creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They are spread all around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">There are many small creatures like tiny sparrows, ants and other insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">There are also other creatures which are smaller than them.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">We can not even see them with our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Cows, buffaloes, elephants, camels and many other big animals are there on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Again, there are so many mines of coal, gas and petrol under earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">These are also the creations of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">There are various kinds of fishes in our rivers, lakes, canals and ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Whatever we see in this world belongs to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">In the sky, we see the sun, the moon, the planets and galaxy of stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">There are also planets, minor planets satellites, milky way, nebula etc. in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">There are stars which are million times bigger than this vast world.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Clouds of various colours float in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The seven skies are placed layer by layer in the vast space.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Allah is the Lord of all the things in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He has created all these only for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">We are human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Allah is our Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">He brings up all human beings Death of man happens according to His will.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">No one can stop Him if He wants someone to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">There is no partner in His domain.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">There is no end of His Lordship.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Allah is the Lord of our wealth and property.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Allah is the Supreme Lord of this earth and sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Allah is the Lord of our body and soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Allah is the Lord of our weal and woe.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Allah is Qadeer.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Qadeer means All-Powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Allah is All-Powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Everyday we see the golden and beautiful morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Gradually night falls.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Darkness covers everything around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Who brings about these changes?</sent>
				<sent id ="82">It is Allah, Who is All-Powerful, brings about these changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">He is the Allah, the All-Powerful owner of unlimited power.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He has the power to do everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">We need light, air and water for our living.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">No creature can live without light, water and air.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Even plants and trees cannot live without them.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Allah gives us necessary light, air and water for our living.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Again, somtimes this light, air and water go against us.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">They cause harm to us at the command of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Then within a few moments the entire sky is covered with darkness.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">It brings terrible storms.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Big trees and plants are uprooted, and houses are destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Everything is overturned within a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Again, sometimes excessive flood washes away trees, cattle, poultry and houses along with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">At this, many people and other creatures die.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">All these happen at the will of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Farmers sow seeds on the soil but they have no power to grow saplings.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Actually saplings grow and develop with grains and crops under the power of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">If Allah, the Great, wishes to do good to anybody, no one can harm him.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">If He wishes to punish someone, nobody can resist Him from doing so.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Allah is All-Powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">There is none who is as powerful as He is.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Allah is Hakim.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Hakim means the law- giver as well as the giver of commands.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Allah is the Law-Giver and Giver of orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">He is the only owner to order and forbid.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He has also created other things and beings which we can not see.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The sun, the moon, the galaxy of stars, clouds all are His creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">We can see these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">He has also created angels and jinns (a kind of supernatural beings).</sent>
				<sent id ="112">We can not see them.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Allah has created everything for the good of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">At His order the sun rises in the east, gives light and heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Then it sets down in the west at the end of the day.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Then darkness covers the earth and night falls.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">At His order clouds float in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Rain falls and crops grow in the fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">All of them obey the orders of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">A child is born in a family and brought up in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">They are to live along with their kith and kin and neighbours around.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">We shall have to obey the orders of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Thus we all shall live in peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">We shall not deprive anybody of his rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We shall not tell lies or steal anybody's things.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Allah has forbidden us to create dispute and quarrel among us.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He has forbidden us to create indiscipline and disorder in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">We shall lead our life according to His law and order.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">We believe that Allah is the sole Owner of everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">He says, Allah is the only Owner of giving law and order.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">We shall obey only the orders given by Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Allah is Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Salam means peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Allah is the Peace - Giver.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">We go to school everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">We are regular students of the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">We read books.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">We write with pen in our exercise book.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Sometimes, we lose our books or pencils.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Then we become sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">When we find them we feel happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Sometimes, we become ill and feel unhappy.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Then we don't like to do anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">After that we recover by the grace of Allah, and we get peace of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Our family consists of grand-parents, parents, brothers and sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Some time they fall in troubles.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">They have to face bad situations.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Then we become anxious.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">We pray to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Allah removes our troubles and we become happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Wealth and property cannot give us peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Long time ago there was a man named Karun.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">He had unlimited wealth and riches.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">But he was not at all grateful to Allah in spite of so much wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">He did not obey His orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">At last, Allah, the Almighty, ruined him.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Thousands of years ago there were two kings named Namrud and Feraun (Pharaoh).</sent>
				<sent id ="158">They were kings of vast kingdoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">They claimed themselves to be the gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">But Allah, the Almighty, destroyed them both.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Allah is the Giver of peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He gets peace of mind whom Allah gives it.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">He gets peace even if he lives in a hut.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">He gets peace even he is in wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">It is only Allah Who is the owner of peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Those who obey His orders get peace and happiness here and hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">We have to pray only to Allah for our peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Kalima means sentence or saying or statement.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Shahadat means giving testimony.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Kalima Shahadat means the statement of giving testimony.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Thus we take Iman, and we become believers (Mumin) and Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">We believe: Allah is our Creator, Sustainer and Protector.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He is Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He is the Peace-Giver.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">There is no one but Allah is fit for getting ibadat from us.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">He is One and Unique.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) is His humble Servant.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He is the Nabi and Rasul of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Allah gives us food, peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">We recognise Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">We also take Iman in His Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Meaning: And I further give testimony that Muhammad (Sm) is His Slave and Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Allah is One and Unique.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">We have also learnt: Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) is His dearest servant and Rasul.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He is our model and guide to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The Prophet (Sm) has shown us the way to please Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">We believe that Allah is One and Unique.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">He is the Owner of all beautiful attributes.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Iman means faith or belief.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">To Believe in Allah and in His attributes at heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">To admit it verbally.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">To comply with Allah's orders and forbiddings.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">To accept these aspects of Iman is called Iman Muzmal.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Muzmal means aspects of Iman (faith) in brief.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Meaning: I believe in Allah as He is and with all His names and attributes.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">And I accept all His orders and commands, laws and orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">In our previous lesson we have learnt about Iman Muzmal.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">We must believe these matters.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Iman means faith or belief.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Mufassal means detailed.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Allah, the Great, has created heaven, earth and all human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">He is the most Beneficient.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Allah, the Great, is one and unique.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">There is none to share with Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He knows all, sees all and hears all.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">He is Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">He exists everywhere and everytime.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Allah sees all that we do openly.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">He also sees all what we do secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">He knows all what we say.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">He also knows all what we think.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Nothing remains unknown or secret to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">When we think good, do good and speak good, Allah becomes pleased with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">And we get peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">If we think bad and do bad work, Allah becomes displeased with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Then we fall in sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Allah says to us: You remember me, and I shall also remember you.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">We get peace of mind when we remember Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">They are made of noor.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Noor means light.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">They always obey Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">They never disobey Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">There are a great number of angels.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Of them, four angels are greater.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Wahi means the message of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Hazrat Mikail (A): He does the duties of distributing food and giving rains.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Hazrat Azrail (A): He is the angel of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">He takes away the souls of human beings, jinns and all living creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">At this, all the creations will be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Moreover, there are two groups of famous angels.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">They are called the Kiraman and Katibin respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">They are called the Munkar and Nakir.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Wahi means the message of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Sometimes His message came in the form of books.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">These are called Asmanee Kitabs (Heavenly Books).</sent>
				<sent id ="238">These books contain the teachings for the goodness and welfare of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">They contain the guidance for the salvation of the human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">There are 104 Heavenly Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Four of them are big and more important.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">They are the Tawrat, the Jabur, the Injil and the Qur'an Majid.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The rest hundred books are small.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">These are called Sahifa.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Sahifa means booklets.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Of all the Heavenly books, the Quran is the greatest one.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The Qur'an Majid was revealed on the greatest Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The Qur'an Majid is the book of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">It is the latest of all Heavenly Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Hedayat means the way to be good and to get the path of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">We enjoy the gifts of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">We did not know to express our gratitude to Allah and please Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Allah Subhanuta'ala kindly sent Nabis and Rasuls to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">They informed us of the identity of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">They also taught us how we should offer our ibadat and prayer to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">They showed us the way how to please Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Hazrat Adam (A) was the first Prophet and the last was Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Many other prophets came in between these two prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Allah says, There is no human habitation where I did not send any prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">We will have faith in all the prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">In the Holy Qura'n we get the names of twenty-five Nabis and Rasuls.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Gradually, we will come to know about many other prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">We will pay our regards to all Nabis and Rasuls.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">We will build up our life after their models.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">We see that a man is born as a little baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The baby grows up and gradually becomes old and dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Some dies of illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Some dies by accidents.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Some dies at the tender age and some dies in the old age.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">All the living creatures like poultry, cattle, birds and animals etc. die.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Plants dry up and become lifeless after sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Beautiful flowers fade away too.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">If there is life, there is death.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">A day will come when everything will come to an end.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Nothing will exist then.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">That day is called the Doomsday or Qiamat.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Allah declares: All the creations will be destroyed but only Allah will exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">He also says: Every living being will have to take the taste of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">He has decided everything beforehand.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">This pre-decision of Allah is called taqdeer.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">There is another world after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">This life after death is called the Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">This life in this world is the cornfield of Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">He becomes happy for his work.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">He is not happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">There he will enjoy eternel peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Hell is the place of hard punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">It is a place full of sorrows and sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">There he will suffer from endless punishment and torture.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
