<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-homeEco-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.22</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">24</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">236</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">125</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t106">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Goat is one of the domestic animals in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Goat rearing is a common activity in most of the family in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">It is a calm andv useful animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">At the homestead or a small farm goat rearing may be done- by little money.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In our country two types of goat are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">In local variety Black Bengal Goat is world famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Black goats of Black Bengal variety are mostly found in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">So it is called Black Bengal goat.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">But in our country mixed colour like white and brown goat is also found.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The meat and leather of this goat are of better standard.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Demand of our local goat leather is very high in foreign countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Foreign variety goat is also available in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">In the foreign variety Jamuna crossing goat is remarkable.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">This variety of goats came from India.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">They are also known as castrated goat.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">This is a big variety of goats with long ears and legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The colour of this variety is mainly brown ash.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">They give much milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Income from Goat Rearing: We can increase our family income by goat rearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">When income is increased family becomes solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">By this project cultivator femily overcomes their poverty and unhappiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Women are more active in goat rearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">So it may be an income generating activity for poor women in the village.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">For this reason goat rearing is very useful for Bangladesh.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
