<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-budh-10</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:55.84</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">295</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2806</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">892</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t2">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">You know that Jatak ia a story of Previous births of Goutam Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">He told these stories while giving sermons to His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">He did many right actions as a Bodhisatta or Buddhankur.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He attained enlightenment in His last birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In order to attain enlightenment or Buddhahood many right actions had to be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">He narrated about liberality, precept, wisdom etc. while giving sermons.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">He used to say the Jataks at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The disciples could solve many problems with the help of these.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Jataks gave them directives to follow the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">After Parinirban these Jataks were collected.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">These Jataks acted as guiding principles to human life from the time of Lord Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">These Jatak stories create curiosity in the minds of people about the previous births of Lord Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">People got proper directives from these Jataks to conduct their life.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">They can easily understand the right and wrong acts of themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Honesty and religious knowledge are created in the minds of the Children by reading Jataks.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The children become conscious about the respect and devotion to the elders and parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">They are inspired in building an ideal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The Jataks may also be taken as a simple entertainment.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The reading of Jataks helps in achieving religious knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In this chapter you will learn about a few Jataks.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Long time ago, Brahmadatta was the king of Baranasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">At that time Bodhisatta was born as a bird Shuk by name, in the province of Himabanta.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Bodhisatta was very strong and powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">So he became the leader of three thousand Shuk-birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The leader Shuk and his wife had a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">They brought up their son with love and affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">As they grew old their eyesight became weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">They could not fly as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The son used to go out in search of food leaving the parents at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">One day while flying he saw a green island surrounded by the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">There was a mango-grove in the island.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">There were ripe juicy mangoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The mangoes looked like gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">He ate the juice of the mangoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The juice was as sweet as honey.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">While returning home he took some ripe mangoes back for his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">After eating the mangoes the Bodhisatta could know that the mangoes were from distant island.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He asked his son, Are the mangoes from a distant island?</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The son said Yes father.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Bodhisatta said, Look my son, it is very difficult to go to such long distant places.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The Shuk who go to that island, do not live long.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">You are our only son.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">In this old age we have none other than you to look after us.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Never go to that island.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">But the son of the Shuk did not listen to his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">He often used to go to that island for eating mango juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">He became greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">One day he ate huge quantity of mango juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">So he became tired and sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The long fly to the distant island made him tired and he felt sleepy.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">He was carrying a ripe mango in his beak for his old parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">While flying over the sea the mango fell into the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The bird lost his way due to exhaustion and sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">He tried to fly low touching the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Being tired and exhausted the son of Shuk fell into the deep sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">A big fish swallowed the bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Bodhisatta saw the sun was setting.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">At last the sun set.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Slowly the night came.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">But their son did not return home.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He could realize that his son died by falling into the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The parents began to express their grief and sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">There was nobody to look after them in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">At last the old parents died in hunger and thirst.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Moral: Moderate eating and spending bring eternal happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Fish in the sea, mango in the beak of the bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Brahmadatta was the king of Baranasi in ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Bodhisatta was sea- god at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">One day a pair of crows came to the shore of the sea in search of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">They went away after the puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The crows ate the left over scattered foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">They also drank wine with happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The sun was about to set.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">They were having their bath in the sea water.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">A big wave came all of a sudden.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The wave washed away the crow in the deep of the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">A gigantic fish came and swallowed the she-crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The crow began to cry loudly after losing the she- crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Crows in groups began to gather after hearing the loud cry of the crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">They decided to punish the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">They wanted to make the sea empty of water by draining.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">They thought that they were more powerful than the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The crows began to drain out water of the sea with their beaks.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">When their throats were irritated after taking saline water of the sea they took rest for a while.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Thus their mouths were sore because of taking saline water with the beak constantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Their eyes became red.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">They began to see darkness.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">There was unbearable pain in their throats.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">They saw with their utter surprise and frustration that the sea remained as it was before.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The frustrated crows began to say with each other, Look, we are draining out water.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">But the sea remained the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">We are draining out on one side, and the waves come on other side and fill the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">We can never drain out water of the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Our mouths have been burnt with saline water.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">We have sore in our throats.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">But the fathomless sea remained as it was.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The crows began to cry, describing the beauty of the dead crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Some of them said, Oh, her tail was so beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Some of them praised her attractive eyes, body and sweet voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">But the bad sea kidnapped her.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The crows began to lament.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">They cursed the sea and began to abuse the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Then the sea-god took her firy appearance.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">She appeared before the crows like a violent storm.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The crows flew away in fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Thus their lives were saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Otherwise they would have been washed away by the waves of the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">All would die in the deep sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Moral: The consequence of foolishness is disastrous.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The crows were draining out water.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Brahmadatta was the king of Baranasi in ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The incidence of this Jatak happened during his rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The people of Baranasi city arranged the marriage of a girl with a young the man of their city.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The city dwellers had a Kulaguru named Ajivak.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">They went to him and said, Oh Lord, we have a good occasion today.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The marriage of a village girl has been fixed with a kulaputra.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Are the stars favourable for the marriage?</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Ajivak became dissatisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">He thought that they came to him to know about the stars after fixing the date of the marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">They did not feel the necessity of consulting him earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">So in order to disrupt the marriage ceremony he declared that the stars were not favourable that day for marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He also said that if the marriage was held that day it would bring misfortune in the future.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The city dwellers believed his words and did not go to bring the girl that day.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The villagers waited the whole day.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The bridegroom party did not come.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Having no other alternative they gave the daughter in marriage to another bridegroom.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The bridegroom party came to the village the next day and demanded the bride.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The villagers became very angry and said, You city dwellers are shameless.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">You did not come to the village on the fixed date to take the bride.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">So we have given the bride in marriage to another bridegroom.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Now it is impossible to bring back the married bride.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">You go back.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">If the marriage is held it will bring misfortune for the bride and bridegroom in future.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">So we did not come.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Now we will not go back without the bride.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Thus the debate continued.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The Bodhisatta was listening to the debate.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">He said, There are no lucky or unlucky stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Stars do not matter in human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Only the foolish believe in the influence of stars on human life and sit idle.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Doing work in time and achieving success bring luck and fortune to human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The influence of stars has nothing to do with right action.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Believing in the influence of stars does not do any good, as the bridegroom party.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Both the parties were convinced to listen to the sermon of Bodhisatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The bridegroom party went back to the city without bride.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">They were sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Moral: Right action has no time.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Bodhisatta was the king of Baranasi in ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Bodhisatta was born in the house of a merchant.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">When Bodhisatta grew up he visited different places for trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He had five hundred carriages.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Once Bodhisatta entered into a desert with his merchandise.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The desert was vast.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">There were only sands all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The scorching heat of the sun made the desert much hotter.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">It was almost impossible to walk on the hot sands.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It was very difficult to walk on the sands during the day.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Everybody used to walk at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">They used to sleep at day times.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">After the rising of the sun they made the bullocks free from their carriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">They kept the carriage round in a place.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In the middle a Samiana or tent was fixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">They used to take rest under the Samiana.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">They would start their journey during night when the sand became cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">They had a guide with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">He guided them during the night by seeing the stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">After walking few days Bodhisatta realized that the destination was not far away.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">He said to his companions, We shall cross the desert to-night.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Throw out the additional water, wood and unnecessary items in order to lessen the load.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The guide could not sleep several nights.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">He thought that the destination was near and wanted to sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He went to deep sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The carriage lost the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The bullocks walked the wrong way.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">They lost their way.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Everybody found that they reached the same place from where they started in the night.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">There was no water and no food.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Everybody began to weep in fear and frustration.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">They slept under the carriage in fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The leader thought to himself, The life of everybody has to be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">I should not sit idle and in silence.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">In the morning I should move out and see around.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">I should find water.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Moving here and there he found some grass in a place.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">He realized that there must be water under the grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Because grass can not grow in the desert without water.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Everybody began to dig in the sand.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">They dig up to sixty yards.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">But they could not find water.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Everybody became frustrated.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">But Bodhisatta was not frustrated.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">He listened to the sound of the flow of water beneath the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He had a servant.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He said to his servant, My son, the sound of the flow of water is coming from deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Do not be afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Go inside with a big hammer and hit the stone.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Find out water.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The boy servant breaking the stone with a hammer in hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The servant was sincere and brave.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Though other people lost courage, but he did not.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He was a man of initiative.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He obeyed the order of his Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">As he hit the stone with the hammer the stone were broken into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The flow of water burst out suddenly and spread all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Everybody drank the cold water.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Everybody had their bath in the cold water.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">They became energized.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Others cooked food.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">They all ate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">They also fed their bullocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">They hoisted a flag mark in the place.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The flag would help the travellers in the desert to get water here.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">At last the sun set.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The merchant returned home with huge profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He made profit by using his merit and intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The merchant Bodhisatta began to live in happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Moral: The success of a man of initiative is inevitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Brahmmadatta was the king of Baranasi in ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Bodhisatta was very intelligent.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">He had a very good friendship with the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">He used to advise the king in solving various problems of the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The subjects lived in peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">But once there was a rebellion in the remote province of the frontier of kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The soldiers of the king informed him about the rebellion.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">It was rainy season at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Hearing the news about rebellion the king left the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">There was a vast garden outside king's palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">He built fortress inside the garden and took preparation for war.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Arms and ammunition and horses and elephants were ready to fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The king began to stay there with his soldiers and supplies.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The king was looking round the fortress to see for himself the overall preparation for war.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">His adviser Bodhisatta was with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The horsemen were preserving the boiled pulse in the basket for their horses.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">There were many monkeys in the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">A monkey came out of a tree and began to eat boiled pulse from the basket.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">He also took pulse in his hands as much as he could.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Then the monkey climbed the tree by jumping.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">He began to eat pulses sitting on the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">A pulse fell on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Then the monkey threw all the pulses kept in his mouth and hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The monkey came to the ground and began to search the pulses which he threw to the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">But he could not find any pulse.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The monkey became sad and climbed up the tree again.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The king was observing the acts of the monkey.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The king called Bodhisatta and asked, My friend, what do you think of the monkey?</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Bodhisatta replied, My dear king, those who are foolish and devoid of sense do such acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The monkey is foolish.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">He had no intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">He is searching only one grain of pulse out of a fist of pulse.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Boddhisatta again said to the king politely, The monkey is without any sense.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">He is also greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">He has sacrificed many things for a small thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">He threw one fist of pulse for searching only one grain of pulse.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">We are also foolish like the monkey.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">We have prepared for war in this terrible rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">It is not possible to fight during rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Roads are bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Supplies may wet due to rains.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The king realized his mistakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">He started for the capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The rebellious soldiers heard that the king was coming to punish them.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">They fled from the remote province.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Moral: The intelligent win and the foolish loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Brahmadatta was the king of Baranasi in ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Bodhisatta was born in the family of a drummer.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">He used to live in a village with his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">One day he came to know that there would be a great festival in the city of Baranasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Bodhisatta called his son and said, My son, if we play drum in the festival we will get enough money.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Let us go there.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Bodhisatta and his son earned a lot of money by playing the drum.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">They started for home after the festival was over.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">There was a jungle on the way to their house.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">A group of dacoits lived in the jungle.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">They used to snatch away money and everything from the passersby if they got a chance.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The son of Bodhisatta was playing drum repeatedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Bodhisatta said to his son, My son, do not play drum repeatedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">When Sreshthi, kings and emperors walk on this way the drum is played with a pause.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">You should play the drum like that.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">But the son did not listen to the advice of his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The drummer and his son on the way to the jungle.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">He thought that if he played the drum loudly the dacoits would flee by hearing the sound of the drum.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">The dacoits were fleeing away as they heard the sound louder and louder.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">They thought that somebody stronger than them was passing by the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">They also thought that there were many people.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">But they realized their mistake when they heard the continuous sound of the drum.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">They looked back and found that only two men were passing by.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The dacoits beat Bodhisatta and his son and snatched away all the money.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The dacoits snatched away everything from us.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">You did not listen to my advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">You have played the drum without any pause.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">It is not good to do anything unnecessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Excess of anything is bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">You met the ill fate by not listening to my advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">We have lost everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Moral: Listen to the advice of the superiors.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
