<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-budh-12</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:55.884</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">255</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2550</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">858</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t4">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Disciples of Goutam Buddha Goutam Buddha had many disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">He proclaimed His doctrines to His five disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Later on many were initiated being inspired by the Buddha's religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Many devotees were initiated into monks and nuns renunciating family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">They were the Sravak disciples of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">They are called Thera and Theri in Pali literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Thera is a Pali word.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The male disciples are called Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">One should possess the qualities of truthfulness, righteousness, self control etc. to become Thera or Theri.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">We can build our moral life and follow true path by reading the verses composed by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The sermons of the Thera- Theris are very much important.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">They made a significant contribution in propagating and spreading Buddhism., Mahakasyapa, Upali, Ananda, Sariputra, Moggallayana etc. are important among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Maharprajapati Goutami, Khema, Anopama, Punnika, Patachara etc. are well known as Theri.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Many devotees expresed their respect to the Buddha, Dharma and Sangaha even not renunciating from their family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">They followed the true path.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">They were called the lay devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Many kings and Shresthis were patrons of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">They helped in the propagation and spread of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">They were all kind and philanthropist.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">They propagated the main principles of Buddhism like kindness, self-control, discipline among their subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">They were known as unique Buddhists in the history of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">King Bimbisar, Emperor Ashok, Anathpindik etc. 109Disciples of Goutama Buddha are important among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Besides, Biskakha, Sujata, Mallika are also memorable.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">We shall now learn in short the biographies of some Thera-Theri and lay devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">There was a rich Merchant in Baranasi during the time of Goutam Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The name of his son was Yasha.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Yasha was polite and gentle from his boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He was very kind hearted.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">So everybody loved him.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The merchant had three palaces suitable for living during summer, the rainy season and autumn.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Yasha used to live in these palaces according to seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The merchant made all arrangements for the comfort of his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">There was always dance and music in the palace for the entertainment of Yasha.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">But Yasha did not like these and had no curiosity about these amusements.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">One night Yasha slept after the dance and music.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">His sleep was broken at dead of night.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He came to the dance- hall.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The dancers were sleeping at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Liquid saliva was coming out of the mouth of some dancers.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Some of them were murmuring in their sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The palace looked to him as a graveyard.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">He became annoyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">At one time Yasha said loudly, this is a chaos, this is digusting.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">It was dawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Yasa came out of the palace wearing golden shoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">He started towards Mrigadava of Baranasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The Buddha was walking in an open place at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">He saw from a distance Yasha to come.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The Buddha got himself seated in His own seat.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Yasha became calm to see the Buddha, the symbol of grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Buddha said to Yasha, Come Yasha, this place is calm and quiet.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">This place is free from chaos.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">I shall give you sermons.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Yasha became very happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The Buddha taught him about the Four Noble truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Yasha realized that the life and world are full of sorrows and miseries.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Happiness is transient or temporary.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">One can get salvation by following and exercising the rules of asceticism.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The Buddha got him initiated into the life of monkhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Yasha realized the truth by dint of rigorous asceticism.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Yasha Thera was one of the eighty Mahasravakas of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">In spite of being a rich man, he became an example of the ideal of renunciation.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">He contributed greatly to the development of Buddha's philosophy.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He will be remembered as a respectable Aryasravaka to the Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Mahali Kumar was the prince of Lichchabi during the time of Lord Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He married Suprabasa, the most beautiful daughter of the king of Kolio.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Both Mahali Kumar and Suprabasa were pious.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Sivali was born in the house of the pious parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Their wealth increased when Suprabasa conceived Sivali in her womb.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">So they thought that a great saint would be born in their family.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Suprabasa suffered antinantal complications for seven years because of her actions in previous labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">She had to suffer labour pains for seven days.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Al last she gave birth to a healthy boy with the blessings of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Suprabasa offered donations for seven days after the birth of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The boy was named Sivali Kumar.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Sivali took Prabrajya or got initiation to novice to Sariputra Mahathera at his early age.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">He remembered the birth pains at the time of cutting hair before taking Prabrajya or taking initiation to novice.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Sivali did many right actions during his earlier births.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He was awarded the title of Loavi Sreshtha (The Greatest Gainer) by dint of his virtues in successive births.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It means that he was the best among the Gainers.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">His sacrificial works were great.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He used to get what he wished.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The Buddhists also perform Sivali puja along with the Buddha puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">So the Buddhists also worship Sivali puja in every house.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">It is the duty of every Buddhist to recite Sivali sutra.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Khema was born in the city of Hongshabati during the time of Padumuttara Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Khema offered three sweet cakes to monk Sujata.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">She prayed to become a disciple of the Buddha in future.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">By dint of her many virtues she was born as a human being and deities in successive births.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">She prayed and meditated for ages to become Arahant and to meet the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">In her last birth as human being Khema was born in the Magadha dynasty during the time of Goutam Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">She was the first wife of king Bimbisar of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The colour of her skin was as bright as gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">She was proud of her beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">One day the Buddha was staying at Venuban of Rajgriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Khema went to the monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The Buddha created a mysterious situation to bring a change in the attitude of Khema.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Khema was very much impressed to see a lady more beautiful than her to serve the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The pride of her beauty had gone within seconds.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The Buddha realized that Khema had a change of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The Buddha showed her the consequences of life for giving her knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">To her utter surprise she saw that the beauty of the lady was fading gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The lady became adult.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">She became sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Then the skin of her body became loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Her hairs became grey.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">At last being unable to stand, she fell on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Khema began to think over the consequences of her life.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">She became very anxious.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Buddha realized the changes in her mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">He called her to listen to His admonition, Khema achieved Arahanthood by listening to the admomition of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">A sense of austerity developed in her mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The Buddha explained to her the cause of sorrows and miseries in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Khema accepted the initiation of nun with the permission of the king Bimbisar.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Khema acquired vast knowledge on philosophy and ascetic rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">She proved her ability in the association of monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The Lord Buddha conferred her with the little of Agrasravik.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Agrasravik occupied an important place in the association of nuns.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">She passed her entire life for the welfare of the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Patachara was born many times in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">She attained many virtues by doing right actions in every successive birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">She built a monastery for the monks and nuns to reside.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Patachara was born in the family of imperial treasurer in the city of Srabasti during the time of Goutam Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Her beauty and grace grew day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">She married a poor man without the permission of her father.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">She began to live with her husband in a village after marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">A few months later Patachara became pregnant.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">She became worried about her future.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Her husband was poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">A new child was coming to the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">She began to think over the maintenance of the child and became worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Repentance grew in her mind for what she had done.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">She understood her mistakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">She told her husband to take her to her father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">But her husband did not do it.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">So she started alone for her father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The husband returned home and found that Patachara was not in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">He was sorry.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He went out of the house without delay in search of Patachara.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">He found his wife in the middle of the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Patachara gave birth to a child on the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Patachara came back to the house with her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Again Patachara became pregnant.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">This time she started for her father's house with her husband and children.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">A terrible storm started on the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">After some time there began hailstorm.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Her husband went to collect wood and died of snakebite.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Patachara gave birth to a child on that stormy night.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">She found her husband dead in the morning and began to weep.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">At last she started for her father's house with her two children.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">There was a river on the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The water of the river rose up because of heavy rains overnight.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It was impossible to cross the river with two children.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">At first she crossed the river with her little child.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">She made the little child sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Then she started to cross the river to bring her elder child from the other bank of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Patachara began to cry loudly in distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">She began to clap her hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">By that time the bird flew a long way with the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The elder Child listened to the screaming of his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He thought that his mother was calling him.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He jumped into the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">He drowned into the river within seconds.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Patachara came to the house of her father weeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">She found here that her father, mother and brother had died.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">She could not bear the mourning.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">She was distraught like a lunatic.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Moving here and there like a lunatic Patachara reached in front of the Jetban garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">At that time the Buddha was giving sermons.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The Buddha called Patachara to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">He said, My dear sister, let your past memory come back.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Patachara got her memory at once.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The Buddha said, Oh Lord, help me.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Patachara told the Buddha everything openly.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The Buddha gave her consolation and said, Do not spoil your life any more by mourning.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">You have also wept in your past life.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Patachara was happy to listen to the words of consolation of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">She attained Srotapatti while listening to the sermons of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The Buddha initiated her to the association of the nuns.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">At last she achieved Arahanthood by dint of her pursuit of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">After achieving the Arahanthood, she composed verses about her life.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">She kept herself engaged in rendering services to the Buddha and the association of monks throughout her life.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Bimbiasr was the king of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Magadha was a rich kingdom during the time of Goutam Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Rajgriha was the capital of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">King Bimbisara married the daughter of Mahakosal.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Mahakosal rewarded Bimbisar Kashigram as dowry of the marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Siddharta Goutam first went to Magadha after renunciation from family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He met king Bimbisar.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">He gave words to the king that after attaining Buddhahood, He would come to Magadha again.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">So the Buddha met the king Bimbisar in Rajgriha on returning from Saranath.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">King Bimbisar prayed to the Buddha to listen to the new message of the Buddha's religion and philosophy.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The Buddha gave the king the knowledge of liberality (Dan), Precept (Shil) and Mental development (Bhavana).</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Later the Buddha gave the sermons about Four Noble-truth and Noble Eight-fold path.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">King Bimbisar took initiation from the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">He dedicated his life to the service of the Buddha's religion and the association of monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">He offered a huge garden for the Buddha and His disciples at Rajgriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The name of the garden was Benuban garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Monastery and Sangharam were built for the first time at Benuban for the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The Buddha spent a few Barshabas (Rainy seasons) in Benuban monastery along with His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Bimbisar had a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">His name was Ajatasatru.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Ajatasatru imprisoned the king after ascending the throne.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">He tried to kill king Bimbisar with the bad advice of Devadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The king was tortured in various ways in the prison.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Only the queen could meet the king in the prison.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The queen used to take food for the king secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Ajatasatru knew this and prohibited the queen from visiting the prison.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">As a result the king died of hunger.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">King Bimbisar had a great respect and devotion to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">He was a pious king.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The king played an important role in the first life of religious propagation of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The name of king Bimbisar will be remembered always in the propagation and spread of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">There lived a Shreshthi named Mendaka in the city of Bhadriya during the time of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Bishakha was the daughter of Dhananjoy.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The name of her mother was Sumana devi.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Once the Buddha came to the city of Bhaddiya.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Bishakha attained Srotapatti on listening to the Sermons of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Then she was only seven years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Bishakha was unparallel in her beauty and good qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">She was very much enthusiastic about donation and religion from her childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">There lived another Shreshthi named Migar at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Bishakha was married to Punyabardhan, the son of Shreshthi.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Her father gave her ten pieces of advice while going to father-in-law's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Do not take the fire of the house out of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">It means that if you find faults in others do not disclose it outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Do not bring the fire from outside into the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Give to the man who returns back in time.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">It means that you should give to the man who gives the thing back to you in time.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Do not give the man who does not give the thing back to you in time.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Give to the man who gives back or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">It means that if your relatives are poor and if they are unable to give back, help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Sit in happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Eat in happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">It means that you should take your food after the superiors have taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Sleep in happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">It means that you should sleep after completing all your works.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Take care of the fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">It means that you should take care of your father-in-law, mother-in-law and superiors.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Show respect and devotion to the deities.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">It means that you should respect the monk and novices (Bhikkhu-Samaneras).</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Everybody was happy and satisfied with the behaviour, beauty and qualities of Bishakha.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Bishakha was devoted to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Her father-in-law was the worshipper of naked medicants.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">He did not give alms to the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Bishakha din not like the attitude of her father-in-law regarding this matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Bishakha proved right in her action.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Bishakha was ready to go to her father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Shreshthi Migar realized his mistakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">He called Bishakha his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">From that time Bishakha became known as Migarmata.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Bishakha used to go to the Vihar three times a day with food.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">She built Rajakaram Vihar in Srabasti by spending nine crore golden coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">She offered the Vihar to the Buddha and His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Bishakha shall always be remembered to the Buddhists for her virtuous deeds.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
