<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-christ-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.259</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">170</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">1829</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">649</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t23">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">God loves and protects the people of Nineveh God loves all people equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This attitude is not a good one.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The Jews of old had this sort of attitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">They used to think that God loved them only.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">So they used to neglect people of other religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">God desired to change this attitude of the Jews.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Hence this story of Nineveh and Jonah.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">God wanted to make them understand that He loved the people of Nineveh also.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The people of the city of Nineveh were not Jews.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They committed many sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Yet God protected and cared for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">But He wanted them to repent and be converted.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Nineveh was the name of the capital city of Assyria.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Assyria was situated in the present-day Iraq.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The people of Nineveh did not live a life according to God's laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">They were busy day and night with worldly pleasures, luxurious living, amusements, wealth and property and with disgraceful conduct.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Malice and hatred, fighting and quarrelling with one another were the main characteristics of the people of Nineveh.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">They forgot their obligation to pray to God because they were gradually losing their faith in God.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">They loved themselves more than they loved God.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In this way they moved very far away from God.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Even though the people of Nineveh committed many sins against God, still He loved them.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">He did not destroy them.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">They forgot God, but He did not forget them.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">They disregarded God, but He did not hate them because He Himself created them.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">God hated their sinful habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">God knew that if they were given a chance to be converted, they could begin anew.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">So He decided to give the people of Nineveh an opportunity to repent and be converted.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Thus God proved His love for the people of Nineveh even though they were not Jews.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The Jews used to hate the people of Nineveh because they were living sinful lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The Jews wished that God would destroy the people of Nineveh.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">But God told the Jews to change their attitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">He wanted to teach the Jews with the story of Nineveh and Jonah.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Like the Jews many times we also think that we are the only people loved by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">We also wish that God should destroy our enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">But God tells us that He loves all human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">God forgives everyone who repents and is converted because out of love He created all.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">There was a prophet named Jonah in Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The name of his father was A-mit'ta-i.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Jonah responded to the call of God and freely chose the life of a prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">But his work as a Prophet seemed very hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">So he tried to escape from his work and go to a different place.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">But the Lord God did not allow him to leave.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">One day God said to Jonah: Go to the great city of Nineveh.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">There declare that I am aware of their sinful conduct.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Since the people of Nineveh were very ungodly, Jonah wished to run away.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Jonah did not want that the people of Nineveh should get the opportunity to repent.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">For if the people of Nineveh repent, God would forgive them.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">In fact Jonah wished that all the Ninevites should be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Therefore, instead of calling them to repentance he decided to run away to a distant place.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Then he boarded on another ship and headed towards Spain.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">This way Jonah wanted to run away from the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">God observed this act of Jonah.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">He decided to bring Jonah back and make him go to Nineveh.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Therefore God caused a violent storm and the ship was about to sink.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The sailors were terrified and began pray to their gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">At the same time they started to throw the cargo overboard to lighten the ship.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Meanwhile, Jonah was fast asleep in the ship's hold.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The captain found him there and said to him: Hey, what's the matter?</sent>
				<sent id ="59">How can you sleep so soundly at this state of danger?</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Get up and pray to your god.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Perhaps he will have pity on us and save us.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">They did so and Jonah's name was drawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The sailors wanted to know the identity of Jonah.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">They wanted to know about where he was from and where he was going.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">They came to know that he was running away from the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">So they asked Jonah: Tell us what we should do to you to stop the storm.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">He said to them: The storm is due to my fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">So, you throw me into the sea and the storm will calm down.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The sailors wanted to take the ship to the shore, but the storm became more violent.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">So, they threw Jonah into the sea and for this they begged God's forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Then and there the storm stopped and the sea calmed down.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Jonah being thrown out of the ship.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The giant whale vomited Jonah out on the sea beach</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The lord rescued Jonah God decided in advance that He would rescue Jonah.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">So He sent a very large fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The fish came and swallowed up Jonah.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">He was inside the fish for three days and three nights.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">But no harm was done to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He stayed there and prayed to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">After three days and three nights the fish spewed Jonah up on the beach.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Jonah thanked God for rescuing him.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He now realized that he must carry out the mission that God had entrusted to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Jonah did not succeed in running away from God. God brought him back.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He reminded Jonah of his mission.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">As instructed by God, Jonah set out for the city of Nineveh.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The city was very large.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">It took three days to travel from one end of the city to other.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Jonah entered the city and after walking a whole day he proclaimed: In forty days Nineveh will be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The Ninevites believed this message to have come from God.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">They decided to keep fast and repent for their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Irrespective of their social status, all of them welcomed this decision.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">They put off their luxurious cloths and put on sackcloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Not only humans but also animals must not eat or drink anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Every one shall pray to God with all his mind and heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Everyone must give up his wicked behavior and his evil actions.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Perhaps God will change his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Perhaps He will stop being angry at us and show us His mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Beautiful and costly dresses are signs of luxury.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">They manifest a person's vanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">On the other hand, politeness and simplicity are expressed by ordinary clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The Ninevites became so humble and simple that they all put on sackcloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">As a result of wearing sackcloth the Ninevites lost the feeling comfort and ease.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">This reminded them of their sins of the past.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">So they were repentant.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Excessive and costly food used to cause physical stimulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">So they used to do many misdeeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">But through fasting they were able to control their physical excitement.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">When their bodies were excessively stimulated, they engaged in bad thoughts and evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">As a result they had totally forgotten God.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The thought of God was absent from their mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">They could concentrate while praying.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">At the time of prayer their mind did not wander.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">They were able to fix their mind on God and pray wholeheartedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">God was pleased to see the repentance and conversion of the Ninevites.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He saw that the people of Nineveh realized their fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">They abandoned their sinful ways and returned to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">So God's anger was abated.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">God forgave the Ninevites and did not destroy them.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">No child is negligible to a father.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He loves all his children.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">He keeps on loving them even though they commit sins repeatedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">This was also the case with the city of Ninevites.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The people of that city were about to forget God while they were living in sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">God knew that they would be ruined if He did not bring them to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">So He wanted to warn them.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He sent Jonah as His messenger.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">God's love is so deep that He did not wish the extermination of the Ninevites.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">God sent Jonah to Nineveh even though he was at first unwilling and did not wanted to go there.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">So this was a lesson for Jonah as well Jonah was unhappy because God forgave the people of Nineveh.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">In his prayer he said to the Lord: O God, I knew for sure that you would act this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">I knew already that you would forgive the sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Because You are kind and compassionate.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Your anger does not last long.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">You forgive anyone who asks for Your forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">When someone is in distress you feel pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">For this reason I was unwilling to go to Nineveh.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">I wanted to run away to Tarshish.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Now I feel awfully unhappy to see your acts of kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Let me die and not live any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">I am better off dead than alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">God said to Jonah: Is it right for you to express such displeasure?</sent>
				<sent id ="142">But Jonah paid no heed to God's words.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Sad and angry, he went to the east of the city.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">There he built a shelter for himself and sat in its shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">He was waiting to see what would happen to Nineveh.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Jonah was pleased with the tree as it provided shade during the day.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">At God's command the heat of the sun became intense.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The breeze of the east became very hot and Jonah began to suffer from the intolerable heat of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">He became tired and disappointed.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Jonah prayed to God saying: It is better for me to die than to endure this suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">God said to Jonah: What right do you have you to be angry about the plant?</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Jonah replied: I have every right to be angry - angry enough to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Then God said to him: You didn't do anything for the plant; you didn't make it grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The plant grew up in one night and died the next.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Yet you feel sorry for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Fasting makes us humble.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Jonah proclaimed fast to make the people of Nineveh humble.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Fasting can increase our desire to see the works of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Spiritual hunger and fasting mutually strengthen each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Fasting helps us concentrate in prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">It increases our spiritual power and helps restrain our unbridled mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Fasting makes our promises firm.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Fasting makes our faith strong and pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Fasting helps us open our hearts to the power of the Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Fast increases our desire to pray in the Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Fasting helps us prepare our hearts to welcome God.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Fasting and prayer wok miracles.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Prayer: Almighty Creator, fill my heart and mind with humility, honesty and holiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Give me the necessary strength to overcome all my bad habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Use me as an ordinary servant so that I can manifest Your glory and feel Your compassion in my heart.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
