<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-christ-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.238</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">189</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">1858</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">636</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t22">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We know that God is omnipresent; He is everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">He knows the name of each and every person.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">He knows about the sufferings and joys of all people.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He wishes to liberate mankind from all suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">He took steps to liberate them from their bondage.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">As we read this chapter we will remember that God knows about our sufferings too.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">He wants to free us from all our pain and suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">He wants us to be really happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">God called Abraham and through him He called the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">God promised Abraham that his descendants would become a great nation and they would be His own People.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">So God blessed him with a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The name of his son was Isaac.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Isaac had two sons - Esau and Jacob.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Another name of Jacob was Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">He had twelve sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Joseph was his most favorite among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">So, his brothers were very jealous of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">They wanted to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">But later they sold Joseph to the Egyptians.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Joseph was a very wise man.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">So the King of Egypt appointed him to a high rank among his ministers.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">However, his brothers did not know that.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">At that time a great famine broke out in different countries of the world except Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Many people died of hunger.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">But there was no famine in Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Plenty of food stuff was available there.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Joseph's father and his sons and their families were starving.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">They heard that food was available in Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">So Joseph's brothers went to Egypt in search of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Incidentally they met their brother Joseph there.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Joseph made arrangements for them to settle down in Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">They were called Israelites in Egypt because they were the descendants of Jacob.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Joseph and his brothers died in Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Then a new King ascended the throne of Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The number of the Israelites began to increase day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">They became countless in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">At that the King of Egypt became very worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He started to treat them as slaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">He engaged them in hard work.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Then he told the people of Egypt: These Israelites are many in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">One day they will become a threat to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">If a war breaks out, they will join our enemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">They will win the war against us and this country will go under their domination.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">So we need to be careful and control their number.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Then the Egyptians treated them very harshly and imposed very hard labor on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">At the same time they kept oppressing them.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">So the Egyptians continued to inflict more pain and torture the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">So the Israelites cried out to God and prayed to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They prayed to God deliver them.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">God knows everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Even before the Israelites prayed to God, He already knew their pain and suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">However, He wished that they would pray to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Thus He could test their faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">When they prayed to God, He planned to liberate them.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Remember: God is Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">He knows all about the joys and sufferings of all people.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">He wants to free mankind from all kinds of suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He wants to see us really happy because He loves us.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">God summoned Moses to liberate the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Moses became a great leader of the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He worked hard for their religious, social, political and cultural freedom.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">God gave the Ten Commandments and many other important teachings through Moses.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Now we will learn about how God summoned Moses and how he responded.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Moses married a woman in the country of Mid'i-an.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The name of his father-in-law was Jeth'ro.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Jeth'ro had many sheep.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Moses used to pasture them by the side of the mountain Ho'reb.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The place was very calm and quiet.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He wondered why the bush did not burn to ashes though it was blazing!</sent>
				<sent id ="70">So he got near the bush.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Standing on one side he wanted to see that unusual sight.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Moses met God in the burning bush replied, Here I am.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">I am the God of your fathers, of Abraham, of Isaac and of Jacob.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Hearing this, Moses covered his face with his cloak because he was afraid to look at God.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But God told him: I have seen the misery of my people in Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">I heard their cries.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">I know about their sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">I wish to free them from the hands of the Egyptians and lead them to a better and vast country.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">A land filled with milk and honey.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">I wish to send you to the King of Egypt to free my People.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">You will lead my people out of Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Moses knew the King of Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Moses knew that the King was very arrogant and he would not pay heed to anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">So Moses said to God: How can I liberate the Israelites?</sent>
				<sent id ="85">I am a little man.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The King will not listen to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">God said: I will be with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">But if they want to know your name what will I tell them?</sent>
				<sent id ="89">God told Moses: I AM WHO I AM.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">You will tell them that I AM has sent me to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The God of your ancestors knows about the sufferings inflicted upon you by the Egyptians.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">He has come to save you.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Then Moses told Him: I beg you to listen to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">They will never believe me and they will never pay any heed to my words.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">They will rather say that God cannot appear to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">God asked him: What is it in your hand?</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Moses replied: It is a stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">God told him, Drop it on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">No sooner had Moses dropped it on the ground than the stick turned into a snake.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Moses jumped off from there.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">God told Moses: Extend your hand and catch its tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">As soon as Moses touched the tail of the snake, it turned into a stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Then God told Moses: Put your hands on your bosom under your cloak.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">He did so.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">And then he pulled his hands out.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">He saw that his hands turned as white as snow.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">God told him: Put your hands on your bosom under your cloak again.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Moses did that.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">And it was seen that his hands turned completely normal and fresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">If they do not believe in the first sign, show them the second one.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The water will turn into blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Moses said to God again: Lord God, I do not know how to speak.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">I am tongue-tied.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">But God told him: I myself will help you speak.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">And I will tell you what to say.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Even then Moses refused to go.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">He said: My Lord!</sent>
				<sent id ="118">I beg your pardon.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Please send someone else.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">God was disappointed at his continual refusal.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">He told Moses: Your brother Aaron is an eloquent speaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He will speak to the people on your behalf.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This is how God summoned Moses to liberate the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The liberation of the Israelites through Moses Sometimes we are in a crisis.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We wish to be free from the crisis.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">For example, when we are sick, we want to be cured.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Sometimes there are problems in our family.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">For example, in an emergency our parents borrow much money from a money lender.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">But sometimes they not able to pay the money back on time.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Then all the members think together how to solve the problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Sometimes as a nation we face serious crises.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">For example, the Pakistanis once kept our nation under their control.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Then we all tried together to be free.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">If we fail to overcome a problem by ourselves, we seek help from others.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The Israelites were in bondage under the Egyptians.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">They suffered a great deal of oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">They cried out to God to free them from their miseries.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">So God planned to free them from bondage.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He chose Moses as their leader.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Now we will try to learn how the Israelites got liberated from Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Moses went to the King of Egypt with his brother Aaron.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">He told the King that the God of Israel wanted His people to be set free.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">They are to go to the desert to offer a sacrifice to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">But the King asked: Who is this God?</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Why should I obey His order and let these people go?</sent>
				<sent id ="146">So the King did not allow them to go.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Rather he imposed more and more heavy burden on the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">So their sufferings increased more and more.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The heart of the King was hardened; he refused to let the Israelites go.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">So God sent ten plagues on Egypt one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">God struck the water in the Nile and all the water turned to blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Struck by the second plague, the country became filled with frogs.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">When the third plague struck, there came gnats on man and beast throughout the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Then God sent swarms of flies on the people and the houses of the Egyptians.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The fifth plague struck the country and an epidemic killed man and beast of the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The sixth plague struck, and the Egyptians got infected with painful boils.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">On the seventh blow, there were massive thunderbolts along with the showering of hails.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">On the eighth blow, the country was covered with locusts.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">On the ninth blow, the whole of Egypt was shrouded with darkness.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">At last, on the tenth blow, the first-born offspring of man and animal in Egypt died.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Thus God sent ten plagues on Egypt one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The last plague, i.e., the tenth was the most serious.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The King of Egypt called Moses and Aaron, and told them to take the Israelites out of Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">So all the Israelites along with Moses and Aaron left Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">After leaving Egypt the Israelites came near the Red Sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">They were now in great danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">How can they cross the Sea?</sent>
				<sent id ="168">So they cried aloud to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">God told Moses: Extend your stick over the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">He did that.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Then the water of the sea was divided into two parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Moses and his people walked on dry ground through the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">But the soldiers of the King came running after them to bring them back to Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">No sooner had they entered the sea than all the waters of the sea returned and drowned them.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">They all drowned in the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In this way, God saved the Israelites from danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Many people our time also live in captivity.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">For example, many poor people are enslaved by the rich people.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Many good people are made slaves by the bad people.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">All these people want to be free.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">In their helplessness they pray to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">God is kind and merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">He wants to set all captives free.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">In order to carry out this mission He looks for people who want to help others.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">All of us can participate in this saving mission of God and liberate people from their bondage.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Prayer: O My Lord, the Creator, You are always eager to relieve mankind of their suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Your mercy and kindness are a source of power, a source of strength and knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Be with me at all times with Your mercy, power and knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">This I pray in the name of Jesus, Your Son.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
