<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-hind-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.429</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">546</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5137</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1512</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t31">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We know that the book of religion is a Holy Book.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Remarkable Holy Books of Hinduism are the Vedas, the Upanishada, the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, the Gita, the Puranas etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">There are mantras and slokas in these Holy Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Ishwara, gods and godesses are glorified in these mantras and slokas.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Eulogy means describing the beauty, quality and sublimity of Ishwara, gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">It also means admiring and remembering them.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">We not only praise our gods and godesses, but also pray to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">We pray for the well-being of our body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">We pray for the benefit and peace of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">There are many mantras and slokas related to praises and prayers in our Holy Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">These were written in Sanskrit in the ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Bangla was not in vogue at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">We read and recite mantras and slokas in Sanskrit.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">However, we translate them into Bangla to know the meaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Besides, there are many prayer poems in Bangla.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Eulogy of gods and goddesses is a part of Hindu religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Ishwara and gods and goddesses are satisfied if we praise them.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Then they bless us.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Praising makes our mind holy.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">It widens our outlook.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">It also awakens the feeling for Ishwara in our mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">We shall learn how to recite the mantras correctly.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">We shall learn their simple meaning in Bangla.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">We shall also learn some prayer poems in Bangla.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">You are the blue insect, or bee, you are the parrot of green colour and red eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">You are the cloud with lightning, you are all seasons - all seas.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">You have no beginning, you exist everywhere; the whole world has been created from you.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Numerous are your hands, bellies, faces and eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">I have seen your eternal manifestation everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">O the eternal manifestation, you are the eternal God, you are the eternal being without beginning or end.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">You are the only shelter of the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">You are the one who knows and again you are the one who is to be known.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">You are the absolute abode -- you exist as you encompass the whole world.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">We know that Ishwara is one and second to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He has unlimited power.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">His virtues are endless.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He is the father of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He has no form or shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">He can assume any shape at any time, although He has no form.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">He comes down with some special virtues or powers.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Then He becomes corporeal.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The deities are physical expressions of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">It means, they are physical expressions of the special virtues or powers of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The strength of Ishwara is easily reflected in gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva, Durga, Saraswati, Lakshmi, Ganesh are different forms of the same Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Gods and goddesses own powers of special kind.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">For example, Brahma creates things.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The creative power of Ishwara is in Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Ishwara's power of nourishment is in Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The destructive power of Ishwara is in Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Similarly, Durga is the goddess of strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Goddess Lakshmi is the owner of riches, while goddess Saraswati stands for knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Agnideva is the god of burning.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Ishwara embodies the combined forces of all gods and godesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The Vedas is our first Holy Book.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Then the Holy Book called Puranas was written.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">These Holy Books contains the expressions and powers of gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Gods and goddesses are pleased if they are offered puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Ishwara is pleased if gods and goddeses are pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Puja means adoration or prayer or worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">It also means special adoration of some physical form of Ishwara with flowers, water and other ingredients.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">In fact, we worship the same Ishwara, if we worship different gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">According to Gita, those who worship gods and goddesses, worship Ishwara in the real sense.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Gods and goddesses have miraculous powers and glory.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">They can do a thing very easily, what men cannot.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">For example, Saraswati is the goddess of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Men acquire knowledge by the grace of Lakshmi is the goddess of wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Wealth and riches are gained by the grace of Lakshmi.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Goddess Durga protects humankind from mishaps and dangers.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">So another name of goddess Durga is Bipattarii or protector from danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">She removes the distress of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">So Durgotinashini or destroyer of distress is another name of Durga.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The images of gods and goddesses are placed in temples or houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Some deities are worshipped every day and some are on particular days.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">For example, the puja of god Vishnu and goddess Lakshmi is performed every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They are called Griho-devata or house-gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Some gods and goddesses are described below.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Durga is the goddess of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">She is the cumulative expression of all the powers of the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">She is the mother-symbol of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">She has many names.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Mahamaya, Bhagabati, Chandi, Mahalakshmi, Mahakali are some of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Durga killed a demon called Durgom.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">She destroys durgoti or distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">So she is given the name Durga.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The complexion of goddess Durga is as bright yellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">It is the colour of Atoshi flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Her face is as beautiful as a full-moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">She is trinoyona or three-eyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Her one eye is in the middle of her forehead.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">There is a curved moon on one side of her head.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Lion is her carriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Durga has ten hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">So she is also called Doshabhuja or ten-handed.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">She holds ten weapons in her ten hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">We find goddess Durga in battle dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">She fights with the weapons in her ten hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">She punishes the evil and noursihes the good.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Durga killed Mahishasur.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">So she is called Mahishmardini.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">She killed two demons called Shumbha and Nishumbha.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The stories of Durga are written in our Holy Book Shrishrichandi.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Chandi is to be read during Chandi Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">There is a definite tithi or lunar day for Durga Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It is performed in autumn.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">So it is also called Sharadiya Puja or autumnal worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Durga Puja performed in spring is called Basanti or springtime worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">However, the autumnal worship is more known as Durga Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Durga does good to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">So she is called Sarbamangala or all- benefactress.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Durga gives us what we want to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">We are freed from any danger if we remember her name.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">We should say Durga Durga before a journey.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Sarbamangalmangalye Shive Sarbarthosadhiuke.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Sharanye Tryambake Gauri Narayani Namo Thastute.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Lakshmi is the goddess of wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">She sits on a lotus.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">She has two hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">She has a lotus in her right hand and a bunch of grains in the left.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">A basket of riches is on her left lap.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Her complexion is golden.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Her carriage is an owl.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Laksmi Puja is held at the full-moon night in the month of Aswin.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">This Puja is also called Kojagori Lakshmi Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We gain wealth if Lakshmi is satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">In many houses Lakshmi is adored as the house-goddess.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">There Lakshmi Puja is performed on every Thursday.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Panchali is read during Lakshmi Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Ringing a bell is forbidden while worshipping Lakshmi.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">There are many stories about the greatness of Lakshmi.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Let us listen to such a story.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Once there was a Brahmin widow.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">She had a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">They were very poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">They begged alms, but could not earn their livelihood even by begging.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The Brahmin widow fell in distress along with her son.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Finding no other way she took shelter with her son in her brother's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Her brother was not also a rich man.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">So the widow and her son lived in extreme hardship.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The son worked all the day in the field tending cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">His aunt could not tolerate him at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">She did not even give him enough to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The widow used to shed tears in silence at the misfortune of her son.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Moreover, she gave in secret some of her food to the son working in the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The son of Brahmin was very pious.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">He uttered the name of goddess Lakshmi in silence despite all his distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">He prayed, Mother, please remove our distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">I shall worship you all my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">One night the Brahmin widow gave her son a piece of sweetmeats to eat secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The aunt overlooked it.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Then she complained to her husband about the Brahmin widow and her son.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">On that very day, he drove away his sister and nephew from his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It was a dark night.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">They lost their way as they walked towards an unknown destination.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">After some time they reached a forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The mother and her son were at a loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">They lay down under a tree there.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">On the next morning they woke up gazing at a very beautiful old lady.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">She was standing before them.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">She had a small packet in her hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The old lady said, My child, you seem to be starving.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">I am Lakshmi, I am giving you some paddy.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Sell half of this paddy in the shop near the forest and buy something to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Scatter the rest of the paddy on a piece of fallow land.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">It will bring you good fortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">There is a hut made of leaves on the other side of this field.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Take shelter there.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Saying so, Lakshmi in the guise of an old woman, went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The Brahmin lady and her son sold half of the paddy as mother Lakshmi advised them.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">They bought food with that money and ate the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Then they bowed to mother Lakshmi with folded hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The son of Brahmin scattered the remaining paddy around the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">At night the mother and her son slept in the hut.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The next morning the Brahmin son saw a beautiful scenery.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The uncultivated land was full of golden paddy.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The joy of the mother and her son was boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">They sold the paddy and got much money.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">They worshipped goddess Lakshmi with utmost devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">On the next day, the landlord heard that all his uncultivated land was full of golden crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">He visited the hut of the Brahmin widow.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He gave her all the uncultivated land as a gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He also made a big house for the lady and her son.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Along with that he asked all his people to worship goddess Lakshmi.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Sarawati is the power of knowledge of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">She is the goddess of learning.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Her complexion is fair.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Her dress is white.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">She sits on a white lotus.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">She holds a book in her one hand and a veena in the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">She is also called Veenapani for the lute she holds.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">A white swan is her carriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Saraswati puja is performed on the fifth day of Shukla Paksma or the light half of the month of Magh.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Shukla Paksma is the fortnight during which the moon is increasingly visible till it attains fullness.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">This tithi or the holy hour is also called Shripanchami.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Saraswati Puja is meant specially for the learners.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">It is observed with pomp and grandeur in our educational institutions including schools, colleges and universities.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Saraswati Puja is also performed along with autumnal Durga Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">You should perform Saraswati Puja for acquiring knowledge and learning.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Recite the Pronam Mantra of Saraswati before you start your study.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Mother Saraswati shall shower mercy and you will gain much knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Kartikeya is the chief commander of gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">His is known as Kartik.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">His complexion is as bright as molten gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">His appearance is extremely beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">He wears various ornaments around his body.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">He has two hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He holds a bow with arrows in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">He killed the demons in the war between demons and gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">A peacock is his carriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Kartik Puja is performed on the last day of the month of Kartik.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">It is also observed during Durga Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The devotees usually pray for children to Kartik while worshipping him.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The complexion of Ganesh is red.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">His head is like that of an elephant.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He has a tooth and a trunk.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Big is his belly.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">He wears an upobeet or a sacred thread on his neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">He has four hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">His carriage is a mouse.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Ganesh is the god of siddhi or success.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Success is attained by worshipping Ganesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">So he is called Siddhidata or the giver of success.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Ganesh Puja has to be performed at the beginning of worshipping all gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The businessmen usually perform Ganesh Puja at the time of opening a Halkhata.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Remembering the name of Ganesh before any activity brings prosperity to men.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Shukla Choturthi or the fourth day of Bhadra is called Ganesh Choturthi.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Ganesh Puja may also be performed on the fourth day of Magh.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Besides, it is also observed during Durga Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Ganesh Puja is a big festival in South India.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The worshippers of Ganesh are called Ganapatya.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Brahma is the god of creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Ishwara creates everything in the guise of Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">He has created the universe and all other things.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Brahma has four faces.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">His complexion is red and fair.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">He has four hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">His two right hands hold a spoon to pour butter and a string of beads.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">His two left hands hold a bowl and a pot of butter.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Brahma's carriage is a swan.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">He sits on a red lotus.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Brahma Puja is performed on the specific moments of lunar days.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">It is performed on the day when Brahma stays on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The date of Brahma Puja can be determined by counting tithi or lunar days.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Brahma loves red flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">We offer red flowers during Brahma's worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The expression of Ishwara that nourishes the creations is called Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">He rears and protects everything of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">So Vishnu is called Master of Nourishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Vishnu has four hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">He holds four different things in his four hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">These are Shankha (conch), Chakra (wheel), Goda (mallet) and Padma (lotus).</sent>
				<sent id ="252">The Chakra or wheel of Vishnu is called Sudarshan.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">It means good-looking.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">His complexion is like the light of the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">He lives in Baikunthadham.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">His carriage is a bird called Garurh.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Vishnu Puja is performed during all other worships.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">There is no fixed date for Vishnu Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">It can be performed any day.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The worshippers of Vishnu are called Vaishnavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Narayana is another name of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">He has done good to this earth in the guise of various avotars or incarnations.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Our sins are pardoned if we remember Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">It makes our mind sacred and peaceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Shiva is the god of destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">He brings equality by destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Brahma creates everything anew after destroying the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Shiva destroys the evil for our good.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">He is called Shiva since he is beneficial to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Shiva has many other names - Rudra, Pashupati, Mahadeva etc. Shiva's complexion is snow-white.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">His hair is matted.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">A curved moon lies on the upper side of his forehead.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">He holds a domoru (a small drum) and a horn in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Trishul is his main weapon.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Shiva wears tiger's skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">His carriage is a bull.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The Puja of Shiva can be performed any time.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">But it is specially performed on the fourteenth day of the dark fortnight of Falgun.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">This tithi is called Shiva Chaturdashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The night of Shiva Chaturdashi is known as Shivaratri or Shivanight.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">The worshippers of Shiva are called Shaiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Shiva is satisfied at little.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">He is fond of the leaves of wood-apples.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">These are indispensable for Shiva's worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">A temple is a house of deities.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">There are idols of different gods and goddesses in a temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">They are worshipped there.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Gods and goddeses are holy.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">They live in temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">This is why all temples are holy houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Temples are named after the names of idols or deities residing there.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">For example, the temple of Shiva is named after the name of god Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">A Kali temple is named after the name of goddess Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">The temple of Vishnu is named after the name of god Vishnu and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">We worship gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">The leading ones among them are Shiva, Vishnu, Durga, Kali, Lakshmi, Saraswati, Sita, Manasa etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">The Puja and festivals of these gods and goddesses take place in different parts of India and Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">There are numerous temples of these gods and goddeses.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Moreover, there are many temples in some other countries, such as Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Mauritieus, and England etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">These temples of deities are also known as pilgrimages to the votaries and worshippers.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">The devotees visit these temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">They witness the gods and goddesses there.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">They also offer their devotion to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Some temples have been set up on the tombs of saints, ascetics, famous personalities, kings and Maharajas.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">These are called tomb temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">People also visit these temples as pilgrimages.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Men make temples to worship gods and goddesses, it means Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Devotion to Ishwara is the main reason for setting up these temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">However, temples are also valuable as social organizations.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Temples are holy and virtuous places.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">These are not only places of religion, but also the places of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Mind becomes holy by visiting temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Men convey their prayer to gods and goddesses placed in these temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Thus they attain virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">When people visit temples, religious feelings arise in their mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">This feeling widens their hearts.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">No narrowness remains there.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">So every one should visit temples in a convenient moment to witness and worship the deities.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">There are many temples of gods and goddesses in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Dhakeshwari temple is the main and most ancient of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">It has an idol of goddess Durga, known as goddess Dhakeshwari.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">She is worshipped thrice a day: morning, noon and evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">There are many Shiva temples near the temple of Dhakeshwari goddess.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Besides, a natmandir or a theatre is situated in front of the Dhakeshwari temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Many rennovation works have been done recently.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Dhakeshwari temple is a sacred hub of pilgrims belonging to Hindu religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Worship, food offering, prayer and other rituals are performed everyday in this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">People from home and abroad gather here to witness and worship the idols.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">A New Year's Fair takes place in its courtyard on the first Baishakh, the starting month of the Bangla calendar.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Numerous people visit the temple and worship the deities in a befitting manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Chinishpur is a village, two miles on the north-west of Narshingdi.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">It is not far away from Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Saint Ramprasad founded a temple in this village.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">The temple is an ancient one.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">There is an idol of Shiva in another temple close to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">The site is very beautiful with a big banyan tree beside the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">A fair takes place on this occasion.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Many people attend the Puja and fair.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The goddess is worshipped here daily on a regular basis.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Meher Kali temple is situated at the village Meher under Chandpur district.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Saint Sarbananda Thakur is the founder of this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">It is an ancient temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Kali Puja is held here on the last day of each dark fortnight of a lunar month.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">In other temples close to it, the idols of Shiva and other deities are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Worship and prayers are held here regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Thousands of devotees gather here during the fair and festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The Navaratna temple of Kantaji is situated at Kaharol under Dinajpur district.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">The noble king Pran Nath started its construction.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">His son King Ramanath finished the work.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">In 1752 the great king Ramanath dedicated this temple to Rukshminikanta, also known as Kantaji.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Rukshminikanta is another name of Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">There is an idol of Kantaji in this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Its architectural design is very attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">There are many illustrations of the stories from Hindu mythology drawn on the walls of this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Some examples are the fight between Rama and Ravana, martial procession of goddess Chandi and the battle of Kurukshetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Many pictures of Krishna's amusement are potrayed in clay on the walls of this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">These are called terracotta.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Worship is done regularly in this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The Kali Temple of Dakshineshwar is situated at a place very close to Kolkata.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">There is an attractive idol of Kali in this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Kali is known here as Bhabatarini Ma Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">There are twelve temples of Shiva in this campus.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">A temple of Radhakanta also stands there.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">A theatre stands in front of the Kali temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Thakur ShriRamkrishna used to worship Kali in this temple of Dakshineshwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Worship performed and food offerings are served here everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">People from home and abroad assemble here to visit the idol of mother Kali.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">A great number of devotees gather here on the day of Kali Puja.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">A place of pilgrimage is a holy place.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">It is related with the name of a god or a great man.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Religious feelings arise in our mind as we visit a place of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">It broadens our mind overcoming narrowness.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Visiting places of pilgrimage removes our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">It helps us gain virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">It brings peace in our mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Everything in a pilgrimage including its soil and water is sacred.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">We know that Ishwara is present everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">But His expressions are much more reflected in the places of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Men visit these places to come closer to Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">There are hundreds of places of pilgrimage all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">These are usually situated on river banks or sea-beaches.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Places of pilgrimage are also situated on hill- tops in an enchanting natural environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Immobile means fixed or motionless.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">These are located permamently at some places around the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Four fixed places of pilgrimage are famous in four ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">These are Pushkar in the age of Satya, Naimishaaranya in Treta, Kurukshetra in Dapor and Ganga in Koli.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Each place of pilgrimage is related with some spiritual memory.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Sthabar pilgrimages are also known as land pilgrimages since these are situated on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">The climate is favourable and the natural beauty is very pleasant here.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">The body and mind of human beings are delighted at the panoramic beauty of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">So, immobile pilgrimages are very popular.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Jangam means movable.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">They can express their feelings related to religion and other fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">The good contact with the saints widens human mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Eventually men can discover what is good for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The word manas refers to mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Mens best sense-organ is mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">If the mind becomes pure and liberal through religious practices, it possesses the qualities of pilgrimages.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Pilgrimages are holy places.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">So visiting a pilgrimage is an act of virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">All of us should visit pilgrimages according to our ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">We should be aware of the magnanimity of all the places of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">It brings us virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">It makes a man happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Men may commit mistakes on their way to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">They may commit sins, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">It degrades their morality.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">They grow immoral losing their values and principles.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">They become sinners with the burden of vices.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Sinners can never prosper in their life.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">They cannot bring prosperity for their country, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">They make their journey towards the places of pilgrimage for remission of sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">They believe that visiting pilgrimages saves them from sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">It reduces their burden.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">So visiting pilgrimages has been prescribed in all religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Many people visit places of pilgrimage with the sole purpose of gathering virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Sins are also remitted through charity, sacrifice, great festivals and worships.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">But lot of fund is needed to organize such religious festivals and rituals.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">The cost of visiting the places of pilgrimages is comparatively lower.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">There are many places where you may reach on foot or at a minimum cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">There are many positive effects of pilgrimages.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Such a person is fortunate enough to enter heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">There are many pilgrimages in different countries of the world including Bangladesh and India.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">For example, Chandranath, Langalbandh, Navadweep, Goya, Kashi, Vrindavan, Hardwar, Mathura, Puri etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Many pilgrims come together to visit these pilgrimages.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">45Hindu Religious Studies Brief descriptions of some places of pilgrimage in Bangladesh and India are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Chandranath is a famous place of pilgrimage in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">It is situated at Sitakunda under Chittagong district.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">The temple of Chandranath is on top of the hill called Chandranath in Sitakunda.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">It is also known as Chandranath Dham.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Chndranath is another name of Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">A big fair takes place on the day of Shivachaturdashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">It is attended by a huge crowd.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">The natural beauty of its surrounding is very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">The mind is purified on going there.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">You should visit Chandranath whenever you get a chance.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Langalbandh is a famous pilgrimage in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">It is located at the Bandar Thana of Narayanganj district.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">It is a very old place of pilgrimage on the bank of the Brahmaputra.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Parshurama brought the holy water of Brahmakunda to the plain land with the help of his plough.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Many devotees still assemble here with the hope of remission of their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Redemption is attained by taking a holy bath here.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Thousands of devotees and virtue-seekers gather here to take holy baths.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">A number of ancient temples stand here.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Everyday people worship and adore their deities in these temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Haridwar is a famous pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">It is situated at Uttar Pradesh or the northern province of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Its ancient name is Mayapuri.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">It is called Gangadwar in the Puranas.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">It is Haridwar to the Vaishnavas and Hardwar to the Shaivas.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Haridwar stands at the foot of the mountain Shaibalaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">The Ganges has met the plains here.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Har-Ki-Piari Ghat is the most beautiful among all the wharfs of the Ganges.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">The Gangadwar temple is close to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Worships and prayers are held regularly in this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">The evening Arati with waving lamps is very attractive here.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">After every twelve years the famous Kumvafair sits at Hardwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Taking Ganga-baths along with a kumva or pitcher in Haridwar helps one to enter the sacred world of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">There are many temples in Hardwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Famous among them are the temples of Chandidevi and Mayadevi.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Close to Hardwar stands the Shiva temple of Dakshmineshwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">The Dakshmajagga (sacrifice of Dakshma) happened here.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Besides, there are many more temples like Rhishir Ashram, Bholagiri Ashram, Gitabhaban etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Badarikashram is a famous place of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">It is in the Uttar Pradesh of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">At present it is called Badrinath.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">Many people opine that some parts of the Vedas and the Upanishada were written here.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">The idol of Shiva has been placed in Kedarnath and that of Vishnu in Badrinath.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Seven hundred years ago the kings of Garoal placed the idols of Shiva and Vishnu in this temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">The peak of the temple is wrapped with gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">There is a Lakshmi temple in the campus.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">The hermitage of noble-hearted Vyasadeva is situated here.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">The Pandavas went to heaven across this valley.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">Rebirth means to be born again.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Death after birth and birth after death again - this is a distinctive theory of Hindu religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">There is a soul in every creature or living being.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Men remain alive because of this soul existing in their body.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">Human body is inanimate and the soul is animate.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">As long as the soul exists in our inanimate body, it remains alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">The body becomes an inanimate object, if the soul leaves it.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">The soul has no birth and no death.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">- The soul is never born, it never dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">It does not grow or increase again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">The soul is birth-forsaken, eternal, constant and ancient.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">It does not perish, although the body perishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">The soul only takes shelter from one body to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">This is called rebirth.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">Like the Gita, the soul and the rebirth are also mentioned in the Upanishada.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">According to Hindu religious belief, man does not have only one birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">He has many births.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">Man goes to heaven for his virtuous acts and enters into hell because of his sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">However, his soul remains the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">The reason behind this is the harvest of his deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">His birth in a particular form depends on the harvests of his deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">This world is full of varieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">And vast is its working places.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">Here every one has to do some work.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">The word deed refers to some activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">Deeds are of different kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">For example, study, games and sports, trade and commerce, cultivation etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">There is some purpose or other behind these deeds of ours.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">And that purpose is to gain something in return.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">But at times we do such works, for which we desire nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">We do such works out of our sense of duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">Deeds or works are of two kinds: desireful deeds and desireless deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">Of these two types, desireless deeds are mentioned as the better deeds in the Holy Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">We know that Ishwara is the Master of creation, nourishment and destruction of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">Everything of this world is being done at His command.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">So, all the deeds are the deeds of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">Deeds are of Ishwara, so are the harvests of deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">He is making us do all what we do.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">We are doing as He wants us to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">If we do our works thinking in this way, we shall do desireless deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">Desireless deeds set us free.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">It brings welfare for the world as a whole.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">It makes men happy and cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">There is a relation between harvests of deeds and rebirth.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">Men have to reap the harvests of his desireful deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">For this purpose he has to be born again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">He gets a good birth for good deeds and a bad birth for bad deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">The created beings move in a circular manner based on their good or bad harvests.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">Death after birth and birth after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">This rotation of all creatures is what we call rebirth.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">Man gets a new birth because of his harvests in the previous birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">He gets a new body.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">The soul of his previous birth also resides in his new body.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">Then it reaps the harvests of the previous birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">Rebirth and harvests for deeds are linked to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">We shall realize it well from some story of rebirth.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">Below is given such a story.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">The battle of Kurukshetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">The Kauravs are on one side, and the Pandavas are on the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">In this battle, Gandhari, the mother of the Kauravas, lost her hundred sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">She was much grief-stricken for her dead sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">She asked Bhagaban Shrikrishna, O Krishna, I can remember my fifty births.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">I made no sin during all these births.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Then why should I endure this grief for the death of my hundred sons?</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Bhagaban Shrikrishna replied, Though you know your fifty previous births, you cannot remember births before that.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">In that birth you had killed hundred insects as an act of play.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">Harvests of the sins of that birth are piled together.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">You have got rid of all your sins in the previous births mourning for the death of your hundred sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">So we can see that men's harvests of deeds remain heaped up.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">In some birth or other man has to reap his harvests.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">This is why man should do good works for a better birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">Good works shall ensure him a better life in the next birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">He would not be born again, if he does desireless works.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
