<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-hind-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.55</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">314</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2873</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">934</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t34">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We know what is good and what is bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This power of understanding good or bad is called morality.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Gaining knowledge about morality is called moral teaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Moral teaching is part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Morals are beneficial rules and regulations for man and society.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Accepting moral teachings and abiding by good advice bring welfare to men.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">They bring good to society.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">In Hindu religion importance has been given on abiding by good advice and morality.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The Vedas, the Upanishada, the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, the Puranas etc. are the Holy Books of Hindu religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">There are many moral stories in these Holy Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Through these stories man can learn moral teachings easily and delightfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Reflection of some principle or other has been made through these moral stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">It means each moral story teaches about a particular moral.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">And exercise of those morals in life will bring us well-being.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">We shall learn about some moral stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">We shall learn moral sayings from these stories and apply them to our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Long, long ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">There lived a Varondo bird in a forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">It was a strange bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">It had two faces.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Other organs of its body were normal like other birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">It could eat with its two mouths.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">But the food went to the same stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The result was same, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">If it ate nutritious fruits by one mouth it could nourish its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">And taking of something bad food would cause a bad result.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">There was a vast sea near the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Huge waves of sea dashed against the shore.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Many things came floating with those waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">These included a number of fruits, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The bird Varondo used to eat those fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">One day a beautiful fruit came floating with the waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The first mouth of the Varondo bird began to eat that fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">It was called Amrita or ambrosia fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The fruit was very beautiful to look at as well as sweet to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">While eating, it said to the second mouth, In my life I have eaten many floating fruits from the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">But I have never taken such a tasty fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Then the second mouth said, Is it so?</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Then don't eat the whole.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Let me have a share of it to satisfy myself.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The first mouth said laughing, What is the need of it?</sent>
				<sent id ="42">We have the same stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Anything taken by anyone of us will go to the same stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Saying this, the first mouth ate the whole fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The second mouth was very angry not to have the share of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It was jealous.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">It decided to teach the other mouth a good lesson by any means.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">It began to look for an opportunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">A few days later the second mouth found a poisonous fruit beside the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Today I will eat this poisonous fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">By eating this I will take revenge of that humiliation.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Hearing about the poisonous fruit the first mouth became scared.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">It shouted, O, never make such a mistake.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Don't bring danger on ourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Neither of the two mouths will survive if this fruit is eaten.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">But then the second mouth was burning with jealousy.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">It did not pay heed to the first mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">In a moment it swallowed the poisonous fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">And then there happened the most terrible thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Though the mouths were two, the stomach was one.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The Varondo bird survived no more.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">It fell dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Such intention of causing harm to others is called jealousy.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The consequence of jealousy is never good.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Jealousy brings harm not only to others but also to one's own self.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Having no jealousy may be called non-malice.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">We shall not bring distress to others and ourselves by jealousy.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">We shall remember that Malice to None is an absolute virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We have learnt from the Mahabharata that there was fierce enmity between the Kauravas and Pandovas.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The Kauravas were one hundred brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They were arrogant and proud.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">They tried to do harm to the Pandavas whenever they got a chance.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">One day the Kauravas tried to burn the Pandovas and their mother Kunti to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">But the Pandavas saved themselves by dint of their intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Then they took the guise of Tapashwi Brahmin hiding their identity of Kshatriyas.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">At that time they lived in a city named Ekchokra.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">There they took shelter in the family of a Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">They lived on begging and collecting fruits from the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Every day they gave to Vima the half of what they got, since Vima had a large body.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">He needed huge food.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">His huge body had much strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">One day Kunti and Vima were staying in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Judhishthir along with his other brothers went in search of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Suddenly the members of the Brahmin family began to cry.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Kind-hearted Kunti asked anxiously, Why are you all crying?</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Tell me the cause of your suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Ill try to remove it if I can.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Then the Brahmin said, Do you want to know about our suffering?</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Listen then, but you won't be able to take any remedial measure.' Kunti said, Tell me first.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">See if I can do anything The Brahmin began to say, There is a deep forest near this city.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">A demon lives there.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">His name is Bok.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Everyday one man, much rice and two buffaloes are to be given for his food.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Today is the turn of our family.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Who will go to the demon to give away his life?</sent>
				<sent id ="96">That is why we are crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">I am saying that I will go.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The lady Brahmin is saying that she will go.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">138 Hindu Religious Studies And the sons and daughters are saying that they will go.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">None of us wants to be alive sending any other member of our family to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">But one must go.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">So, we have decided to go the demon Bok all together.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Let him eat us all.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Listening to everything Kunti said to the Brahmin, Dont worry.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">I have five sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">One of them will go to the demon.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The Brahmin said, What are you saying?</sent>
				<sent id ="108">You are my Brahmin guests coming for shelter.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">None of your sons should be killed because of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Kunti said, My second son will go.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">You can see how huge is his body and so is his strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Demon Bok cannot do any harm to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">But there is one condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The Brahmin asked, What is the condition?</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Kunti said, You have to keep it secret.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">You cant disclose it to anyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Kunti told Vima the reason of their crying and asked him to go to the Demon Bok.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Vima agreed to go with enthusiasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">One is delighted if one is able to do good to people.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Besides, there was an opportunity for Vima to go to fight after a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">They were Kshatriyas in the guise of the Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Vima set out his journey towards the forest with two buffaloes and much rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Going to the forest he started to call the demon Bok, Where are you Bok? Come and have your food.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Demon Bok was very angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">He said, Who calls me there by my name?</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He came forward and became more furious.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He saw that Vima himself was eating the rice brought for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Bok said roaring, Who are you?</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Why are you eating my food in front of me?</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Do you wish to go to the house of death earlier?</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Vima gave no importance to what he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">He continued his eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">He got delicious food after many days.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The Demon Bok started to hurt Bhima in his back with all the strength of his body.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Yet Vima was laughing and eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Then Bok, the demon pulled up a huge tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He rushed towards Vima.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Vima had finished his eating then.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He washed his hands without hurry.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">By that time the demon had thrown the tree to Vima.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Vima caught the tree with his left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Then Vima and Bok started fighting.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Vima threw the demon on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Then he killed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">More demons came running at the screaming of demon Bok.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Vima said to them Be careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Dont come forward even a step more.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Or I will make your condition just like him.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Moreover, you must not do any harm to men.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The demons being scared promised to do as Vima said.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Vima killed Bok, the demon and then left the dead body in front of the main gate of the city.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">After that Vima went to the house of the Brahmins.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">All the people of Ekchokra city saw the demon Bok lying dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">They started rejoicing.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">No one knew that Vima had done this.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The Brahmin complied with the condition given by Kunti.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">However, the Brahmin kept on saying that a mighty man had killed the demon Bok being kind to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Benevolence is also part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It brings welfare to others and virtues to the benevolent.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Long time ago there lived a merchant in a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">His name was Jirnadhan.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Once he decided to go abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">He would earn riches from abroad and come back.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In his house he had a pair of iron-made scales of his ancestors.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">It was very heavy and durable.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">He could not decide the person to whom he would keep the pair of scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Suddenly he remembered a merchant friend of his.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The house of that merchant was nearby.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">That merchant was rich enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Jirnadhan went to his house and said, My friend, I've decided to go abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">I want to keep this pair of scales to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">These were precious belongings of my ancestors.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">I'll take it back when I would return from abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The friend merchant said, That's fine.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">A friend surely comes to his friend in times of need.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Leave your pair of scales here.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The merchant kept the pair of scales happily.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Jirnadhan felt much relieved and went abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">After many days Jirnadhan returned home.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Then he went to his friend and wanted his pair of scales back.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">In fact, this merchant friend of his was very greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He liked the pair of scales of his friend very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">So he was not willing to give it back.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">He came with a sad appearance on his face and said, Brother Jirnadhan, what should I say?</sent>
				<sent id ="185">I couldn't protect the pair of scales of yours.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">I kept it in the store room.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">After a few days I found that the mouse had eaten it up.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Jirnadhan thought, it was impossible for a mouse to eat those heavy scales made of iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He realized that the merchant did not want to give it back.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">So he played tricks too and made a story of his own.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">He replied to the merchant with a sympathetic voice, OK then.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">What to do, if the mouse had eaten the pair of scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">You have no fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Don't be upset.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Let it go.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">I've come after a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">I like to take a bath in the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Your son Dhonadeva has grown up enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">He is healthy also.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Please tell him to come with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The merchant said, Why should I to tell him this?</sent>
				<sent id ="202">You may order him to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">The merchant sent his son Dhonadeva with Jirnadhan.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Jirnadhan took his bath in the wharf of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Dhonadeva also took his bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">On the way back Jirnadhan left Dhonadeva in a hole beside the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He covered the surface of the hole with a stone and came back home.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Not finding his son with Jirnadhan the merchent asked, What's wrong with Jirnadhan, why are you alone?</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Where is my son Dhonadeva?</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Jirnadhan replied, I'm just thinking of saying that.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">But how should I say!</sent>
				<sent id ="212">It's a matter of great pity.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">A falcon has pounced on your son and took him away.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The merchant became very angry hearing this.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">What nonsense you are saying?</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Is it possible to pounce on a young boy?</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Bring my son or I will complain about your false statement in the royal court.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Both of them went to the royal court for justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The merchant complained that Jirnadhan had kidnapped his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The king said What does it mean?</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Jirnadhan then told everything that happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">145Moral Stories The falsehood and betrayal of the merchant were exposed at the query of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The merchant confessed his guilt and wanted to return the pair of scales to Jirnadhan.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Then Jirnadhan also gave the son of the merchant back.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Jirnadhan got his pair of scales back.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The merchant got his son back.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">But the merchant had to pay fine for his betrayal.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Betrayal is an evil deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The person who does not keep his word is called a betrayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">No one likes a betrayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Betrayal is a great sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">We shall never break our trust.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Somewhere there was a huge forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">There was a lake not far away from the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Beside the lake there lived some rabbits.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">They were in great peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Suddenly black clouds of unrest gathered in the sky of peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">In the forest there lived a herd of elephants.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">They had a leader.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">His name was Lombodonto or Long-teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Once there was scarcity of water in that forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Then Lombodonto with his companions came beside the lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">They occupied the place, where the rabbits lived.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The water of the lake was very sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">There were many banana trees, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The elephants ate and went roaring as they wished.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">After a few days the elephants said to their leader, This place is very good.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">We want to stay here.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The leader Lombodonto said, Well then.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">I agree to your desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The elephants occupied the living place of the rabbits.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">The rabbits were in a great problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">They could not even go out.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">They got killed under the feet of the elephants whenever they came out.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">After the death of some rabbits they sat in a meeting.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The meeting was called to find out a way to survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The leader said, This is our place.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Our ancestors lived here for ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">And we are living here.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">But elephants have occupied this place by force.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">They are big and we are small.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Their strength is more, ours is less.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">So we have to live by dint of tricks and intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">We have to regain our control over this place.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">All other rabbits supported him, That's right.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The leader said, If there is someone brave among you, I can suggest him a plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Tell me, who will go to the leader of the elephant?</sent>
				<sent id ="268">No one said anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">All were quiet!</sent>
				<sent id ="270">No one wanted to meet with death willingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">At last a pious old rabbit said, I've grown old enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">How long would I live!</sent>
				<sent id ="273">I will think myself fortunate if I die a bit earlier for the benefit of my society.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">He said to the leader, Tell me your plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The leader told the plan to the old rabbit whispering.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">It was a moonlit night.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The sky was glowing with the light of the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The light of the moon was reflected in the water of the lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The lines of the waves were trembling.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The reflection of the moon was trembling also.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">The old rabbit chose that moonlit night and went to the leader of the elephants.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">He said loudly, O the leader of the elephants, your body is fat and your brain is also dull.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">I've come to you with a bad news.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Being surprised the leader of the elephants said, I don't know you, who are you?</sent>
				<sent id ="285">The old rabbit said, How will you know me?</sent>
				<sent id ="286">I live in the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">How will you know me being a beast of the earth?</sent>
				<sent id ="288">I'm the messenger of Chondrodeva or the god of the moon himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Elephant: What message you have brought?</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Rabbit: Chondrodeva has become very much angry with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Because you have occupied other's place leaving that of your own.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">It's a misdeed to occupy other's place by force.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">If you want to survive, go to your own place along with your companions.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Elephant: Where is Chondrodeva now?</sent>
				<sent id ="295">I'll leave the place with my companion just after visiting him.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Rabbit: Chondrodeva has become very angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">So he has been sitting in that lake of sweet water.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Come with me; see with your own eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Saying this, the old rabbit brought the elephant near the lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Just as he said before, the reflection of the moon was trembling with the waves in the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Elephant and rabbit The leader of the elephants saw that the rabbit was right.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Chondrodeva was hissing and swinging.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">He said to Chondrodeva, God, I was wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">I have done something very unjust.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">I will never occupy other's place by force.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">I will never snatch other's belongings either.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">We are leaving our occupied place today and going to our own place.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Please forgive us.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Saying this, the leader of the elephants left the place along with his companions as they bowed to Chondrodeva.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">This is how small creatures defeated the elephants by dint of their intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">They drove away the elephants which were bigger and stronger than them.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">They began to live by the side of the lake happily.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Intelligence is greater than might.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">The saying goes, Intelligence is the strength.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
