<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-hind-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.465</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">487</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4355</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1294</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t32">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The Holy books deal with the purpose of religion, its subject- matters, rituals and religious rites.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The books which contain the stories and episodes of Hindu religion are called Hindu religious books.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">There are many books of Hindu religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">These are the Vedas, the Upanishada, the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, the Puranas, the Shrimadbhagabatgita, the Shirimadbhagabod, the Shrishrichandi etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Though the Hindus have different religious books, the Vedas are their fundamental sacred scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The Vedas are divided into four parts - the Rigveda, the Samaveda, the Yagurveda and the Atharbaveda.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">These four parts taken together are called the Vedas.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">There are many mantras hymns in the Vedas.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">These mantras contain reference to numerous deities and prayers to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The Upanishada is the book of knowledge among all the Vedas.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Both Brahma and soul are mentioned in the Upanishada.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The Shrimadbhagabatgita is the collection of the sayings of Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Shrikrishna is also mentioned in the Shrimadbhagabod.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">In Shrishrichandi the Shaktidevi or the mother power has been mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">These Hindu religious books are written in the Sanskrit language.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">However, the main religious books of Hindus are translated into Bangla.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">For example saint Valmiki wrote the Ramayana in Sanskrit.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Poet Krittibas translated this Ramayana into Bangla.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Krishnadaipayana Vedavyasa wrote the Mahabharata in Sanskrit.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Kashiram Das translated the Mahabharata into Bangla.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Let us first learn the story of the Ramayana and after that the story of the Mahabharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The Ramayana is the story of Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The story of the Ramayana is divided into seven chapters.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Each of these chapters is called a kanda or event.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">There are seven events in the Ramayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">These are Adi Kanda, Ayodhya Kanda, Aranya Kanda, Kishkinda Kanda, Sundara Kanda, Yuddha Kanda and Uttara Kanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Earlier we learnt about the first four events.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Here we will recollect them in brief.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Then we will discuss the later three events, such as Sundar Kanda,Yuddha Kanda and Uttara Kanda in details.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Long ago there was a king named Dasaratha in Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">He had three queens.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">They were Kausalya, Kaikeyi and Sumitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Kausalya was the eldest queen and Rama was her son.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Kaikeyi was the second wife and Bharata was her son.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The youngest queen Sumitra had two sons named Lakshmana and Shatrughna.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">One day saint Viswamitra came to the royal court of Dasaratha.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He returned to his Tapobon with Rama and Lakshmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">On the way to Tapobon Rama and Lakshmana killed Tarka, one of the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">They killed many demons in the Tapabon of Viswamitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">After that Viswamitra went to Mithila along with Rama and Lakshmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">At that time Mithila was ruled by a king named Janaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Janaka had two daughters Sita and Urmila.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Marriage between Sita and Rama was settled.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Dasharatha came along with his two sons named Bharata and Shatrughna.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Kushadhwaj was Janaka's brother and he had two daughters as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Their name was Mandavi and Shrutakirti.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Rama and Sita, Lakshmana and Urmila, Bharata and Mandavi, Shatrughna and Shrutakirti got married to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">In Ayodhya there were lots of celebrations.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Time flew away in joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Dasharatha became old.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">He wanted Rama to become the crown Prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">As Rama was the eldest son he should become the crown Prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">But Kaikeyi protested that.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Kaikeyi did it not of her own accord.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Kaikeyi had a maid named Manthara.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">She gave evil counsel to Kaikeyi.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Once upon a time Dasharataha wanted to grant Kaikeyi two boons.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">It means, he wanted to fulfil two of her wishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Manthara told Kaikeyi to ask for the two boons to Dasharatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">One of the wishes would be to crown Bharata, son of Kaikeyi as king.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The other wish would be to send Rama, son of Kausalya for fourteen years to the forest for exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Kaikeyi asked for these two boons to Dasharatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">To hear this Dasharatha was heart broken.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He knew that if he did not give the boons it would be the breaking of promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">And if he agreed then Rama would have to go for exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Rama came to know everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">To fulfill his father's promise he went to the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Sita and his younger brother Lakshmana accompanied him.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Dasharatha was not able to bear this sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">He passed away.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">At that time Bharata was staying at his maternal uncle's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Hearing the news he came back to Ayodhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">He went to Rama to make him come back but Rama was not ready to do that.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">So, Bharata came back with Rama's shoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He placed it on the throne and this way Bharata ruled the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Rama, Lakshmana and Sita started living in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Thirteen years had passed.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">At that time a danger appeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Ravana was the king of Lanka then.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It was an island.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It was very difficult to reach there.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Ravana came from Lanka and abducted Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">He then took her to Lanka with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Rama and Lakshmana started searching for Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Continuing their search, they reached the monkey kingdom Kishkinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">There lived the monkey tribe.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">One of their heroes named Sugriva became friend of Rama and Lakshmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">He was the younger brother of Vali, the king of Kishkinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">But there were disagreements between the two brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Rama agreed to help Sugriva.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Vali got killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Sugriva became the king of Kishkinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Sugriva and Rama sent the monkey soldiers in various directions in search of Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">A bird named Sampati gave the whereabouts of Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">He informed that Ravana had taken Sita to Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">They would have to rescue Sita from Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Sugriva's monkey army was ready to do that.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">But Lanka was surrounded by the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">How could they reach there?</sent>
				<sent id ="100">They could find no way to cross the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Pabannandan Hanuman came forward to rescue them from this situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Hanuman expanded his body to enormous proportions on Mahendra mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Then in one jump he reached Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Lanka looked very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The palaces of Lanka were made of gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Horses, elephants and chariots were kept in the gate of the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Precious things were all around the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">A beautiful garden stood there with many ponds in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Hanuman moved around the country looking for Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Continuing his search, he came to a beautiful forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">It was called Asoka forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">There he discovered a beautiful lady.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">She was imprisoned in a garden of Ashoka trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Her eyes were full of tears.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">She looked very sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">She released deep sighs at times.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">She was guarded by some demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Hanuman thought that she was Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">How Hanuman would introduce him to Sita?</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Some of the demons were sleeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Some of them were roaming here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Hanuman sat on top of a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He started telling the story King Dasharatha and his elder son Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">He narrated the exile of Rama, Sita and Laksmana.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Assuming the form of a tiny monkey, Hanuman crept down the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He gave her the ring of Rama and took the one from her.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Hanuman assured Sita that soon Rama, Lakshmana, Sugriva and his monkey army would rescue her.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Hanuman did not come back at once.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He wanted to measure the strength of the enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">In his rage, Hanuman destroyed trees of the forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">He attacked the army.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Many soilders of Ravana got killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">But at last he was captured by the Ravana's soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">They set fire in his tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">With that fire Hanuman burnt Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Then he went back to Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He carried the ring and other materials from Sita that gave her identity.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Rama took preparations along with his brothers, friends and army to rescue Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">To reach Lanka one has to cross the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Rama decided to bridge the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Otherwise it was impossible for any one but Hanuman to cross it.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">One of the monkey's name was Nal.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">He made a bridge across the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Rama, Lakshmana, Sugriva and the army went to Lanka over the bridge.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Both the sides were ready to fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Ravana's brother Vibishana and grandmother Malyaban became thoughtful.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">60 Religious Books, The Ramayana, And The Mahabharata They advised Ravana to give back Sita without any war.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Ravana decided not to give back Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">He scolded Vibishana.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Vibishana deserted Ravana and joined hands with Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Fierce fighting started between the two armies.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The war had been fought for some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">A great number of troops on both sides were killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Many were wounded.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Ravana's all sons were killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">One of his sons was Indrajit.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Ravana's brother Kumbhakarna also died.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">At last Ravana came to the battle field.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Rama killed Ravana with the weapon named Brahmaastra.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">After Ravana's death Vibishana became the king of Lanka.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Rama, Sita and Lakshmana went back to Ayodhya .</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Returning to Ayodhya Rama took charge of the kingdom from Bharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Rama dedicated himself to the welfare of his subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">For a time everything went well.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">But soon whispers about Sita's long stay in Lanka spread through the city.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Rama was very sad to hear that.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Sita was not guilty of anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Sita was pregnant then.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Under the pressure from the citizens of Ayodhya, Rama banished her to the forest for exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Sita made no protest.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">She came to the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">There she found the hermitage of Valmiki.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The saint gave her shelter to his hermitage.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">There she gave birth to twin sons, Lava and Kush.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">A long time had passed after Sita's exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Rama became determined to start Ashvamedha, the great sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Sita should be with him during the sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">So, Rama made a statue of gold of Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Valmiki taught Lava and Kush the songs of Ramayana, based on the life of Rama and Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Rama was delighted to hear those songs.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He thought that Lava and Kush were Sita's sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Struck with remorse, Rama recalled the sufferings of his wife Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">He invited Valmiki to join the rituals along with Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Sita came to the Ashvamedha Jagga.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Many saints came to attend it.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Valmiki came along with Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He glorified Sita there.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">No one is as virtuous as Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Rama also knew it.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">There was none to be compared with Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">But Rama was the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">He had to satisfy his subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He asked her to give assurance of her chastity by getting into the fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Sita was sad to hear that.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">She appealed to the earth with folded hands, Mother Basumati, please open your bosom and take me into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The earth opened near Sitas feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">A gorgeous throne appeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">And mother Basumati, the goddess of earth, was seated upon it.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">She took Sita beside her.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">62 Religious Books, The Ramayana, And The Mahabharata The throne vanished in a moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Sita entered the underworld.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">People were astonished to see the scene of Sita's entering into the underworld.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">People were repenting in grief.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Rama did not want to live anymore.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">He handed over the kingdom to his sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The later story is more painful.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Lakshmana committed suicide in the river Sarju.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Rama was very upset of Lakshmana's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">He also committed suicide in the river Sarju.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Bharata and Shatrughna also sacrificed their lives in the water of the river Sarju.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Afterwards all of them met in the heaven with their divine body.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The Mahabharata, a religious book of the Hindus is a vast one.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">It is based on the story of the Kauravas and the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">But along with the main story there are sub-stories or upakhanyas in the Mahabharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">We have read the first eight parvas in details earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Now we are going to know the later nine parvas in details.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">But we will recall the first eight parvas in brief.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Long ago there was a kingdom called Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">It was ruled by a king named Santanu.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">His eldest son was Vishma.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Vishma vowed that he would never get married and would never ascend the throne.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">So, after Santanu Bichitrabirja became the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Bichitrabirja had two sons named Dhritarashtra and Pandu.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Dhritarashtra was a born blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">So, after Bichitrabirja Pandu became king.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Dhritarashtra had one hundred sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">His eldest son was Duryodhana.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Pandu had five sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">His eldest son was Yudhisthira.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">After the death of Pandu Yudhisthira became crown prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">But Duryodhana did not accept it.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">He tried hard to kill the Pandavas but in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Later Dhritarashtra gave half of the kingdom to the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Khandavprashtho was the name of their kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Duryodhana hit upon a plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">He called Yudhishthira to play the dice game.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Yudhishthira lost the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">According to the terms of the competition, the Pandavas went in exile along with their wife Draupadi.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Pandavas started roaming about in different forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Thus elapsed twelve years.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">They entered the kingdom of the King Virata.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Here in the kingdom of Virata the Pandavas spent one year in disguise.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The Pandavas fulfilled their part of the bargain and returned to Hastinapura with Draupadi.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Duryodhana did not give them back their kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Yudhishthira requested to give at least five villages to the five brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">But Duryodhana said that he would not give even an inch of the land without a fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">All the efforts of establishing peace went in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Both the Pandavas and the Kauravas were ready to fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">There was a vast field called Kurukshmetra near Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The two sides were at war there.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Vishma was the commander-in-chief of the Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Arjuna was the commander-in-chief of the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Krishna was the charioteer of Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Arjuna's heart ached at the sight of his elders and relatives in the battle field.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Krishna then gave him some advice that calmed down Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Arjuna was inspired to fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">A deadly war took place and continued for ten days.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Thousands of arrows stroke Vishma in waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">He lay fully supported by the arrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">No part of his body touched the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">This is called Vishmas bed of arrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">After Vishma's lying on the bed of arrows Drona became the commander-in-chief of the Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">A heavy fight began.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Arjuna was busy fighting on one side of the battle field.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Drona formed the iron disc of war by positioning the armies on the other side.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Abhimanyu, son of Arjuna, entered the iron disc of war.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">He fought alone with many a great warrior.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The Saptarathis together attacked Abhimanyu who was defeated and killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Arjuna became furious at the death of his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">As the war continued Drona was killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Dhristodumno killed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Ashwatthama, son of Drona got furious at his father's killing.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">After Drona's death Karna became the commander-in-chief of the Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">A heavy fight continued.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Karna defeated all the Pandavas except Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Yudhishthira was hurt.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Vima killed the brothers of Duryodhana one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Thus was killed Dushasana by Vima.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">At last there was a fight between Karna and Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Karna was killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">After the death of Karna, king Shalya became commander-in-chief.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">A heavy fight took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Many soldiers of both the sides were killed and injured.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">At last Yudhishthira killed Shalya.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Sahadeva killed Shakuni, the maternal uncle of Duryodhana.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Duryodhana escaped out of fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">He hid himself in Lake Dwaipayan.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">But the Pandavas came to know this.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">They went to the bank of Lake Dwaipayan.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">They rebuked Duryodhana in a bitter manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Duryodhana came out of the lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Then there was a duel fight between Vima and Duryodhana with mallets.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Vima broke the thigh of Duryodhana with the mallet.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">He fell down on the earth only to live with the broken leg.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The word Supta means sleeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">In this parva Ashatthama killed the sleeping soldiers of the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">This is why the parva is named Sauptika-parva.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Ashatthama vowed to kill the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">The night had far advanced.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Everybody fell asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Ashatthama entered the camp of the Panadvas stealthily with a sword in hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">First he killed Dhristodumno, the killer of his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Then he killed many great warriors and soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">He also killed the five sons of Draupadi.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Panchapandavas were not there in the camp that night.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">As it was dark Ashatthama took the five sons of the Pandavas for Panchapandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Then he took the five heads of the five sons of Draupadi and Panchapandavas to Duryodhana.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Duryodhana became very happy to see the heads.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">But later he realized that these were not the heads of the Panchapandavas but of their sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Duryodhana became very sad because these five sons were the last descendants of Kuru dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Duryodhana died in grief.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">On the other hand Draupadi was wailing for her sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">The camp of the Pandavas was full of grief and mourning.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">The war of Kurukshetra came to an end after eighteen days.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">None of the one hundred sons of Dhritarashtra was alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Many others were killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Inmates were wailing in grief in every house of Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Vyasa consoled Dhritarashtra.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Gradually they could endure the loss of their near and dear ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Everybody came to the battle field along with the wives of the Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">They saw the dead bodies of their relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">They broke into tears.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">But they must not continue mourning.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">They were to make necessary arrangements for the cremation of the dead bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">A number of funeral pyres were made ready for cremation.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">The dead bodies were cremated.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Then all came to the bank of the Ganges.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">They bathed in the water of the Ganges.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">They offered water in the memory of the dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Gandhari became almost mad at the loss of her sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Krishna consoled her much.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">All came back from the battle field of Kurukshmetra, but they did not enter Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Now Yudhishthira was supposed to be the king, but he refused.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">There were much bloodshed and loss of life for the sake of the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">So, he lost interest in the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">He decided to go to the forest and meditate there.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Krishna advised him to have patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Then Yudhishthira entered Hastinapura with his brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Others also followed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">He became the king of Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Then he went to Vishma and touched his feet to seek his blessings.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Vishma gave him much advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Yudhishthira was much benefited from Vishma's advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">He came to know about religion, peace and other things from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Yudhishthira said to Vishma that he was pained at heart to see him wounded on the bed of arrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">He further said that there was nothing to be ashamed of.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">And there is no reason to consider one to be a sinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Vishma had the boon of wishful death.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">He was waiting for an auspicious moment for his death.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">The moment arrived after his lying on the bed of arrows for fifty eight days.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">He embraced death wilfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">His dead body was cremated with due respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">After the death of Vishma, Yudhishthira was overwhelmed with grief.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Dhritarashtra and Krishna consoled and requested him to be attentive to royal duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">At the suggestion of Vyasa Yudhishthira agreed to do Ashwamedha Jagga.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">A horse was let loose formally.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Arjuna would be the custodian of the horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">It would come back after traveling many countries for one year.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The horse went through different countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Sometimes there were fights between Arjuna and those who stopped the horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Arjuna came out victorious in all the fights.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Arjuna invited all the kings to attend the Jagga ceremony.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">He returned to Hastinapura with the horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Then the Ashamedha Jagga began.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">The Munis, saints, kings, relatives and many other people of the country assembled there.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">People praised highly of Yudhishthira after the ceremony was over.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">The Pandavas behaved very well with all after the recovery of the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Dhritarashtra and Gandhari were very much pleased with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Thus elapsed fifteen years.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Dhritarashtra decided to go to the forest with his wife and meditate there.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Yudhishthira requested them to remain at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">But Dhritarashtra did not change his decision.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">It was the night of the full moon of the month of Kartika.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Dhritarashtra, Gandhari, Bidur and Sanjay started their journey to the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Kunti and the Pandavas followed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Even the citizens followed them crying.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">After coming out of the city Dhritarashtra requested all to go back.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">At this all excepting Bidur, Sanjay and Kunti went back.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">The Pandavas were stricken with grief to see Kunti going to the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">After a few days Yudhishthira along with his brothers went to the forest to see them.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">In the presence of Yudhishthira Bidur died while meditating.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Yudhishthira spent some time there and returned to Hastinapura with his brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Two years later Devarshi Narada came to Yudhishthira.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Dhritarashtra, Gandhari and Kunti were burnt into ashes.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Sanjay could however escape it and later went to the Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Hearing the news Yudhishthira burst into tears.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">There was wailing everywhere in Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Narada pacified them.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">They performed the Sraddha rites in honour of Dhritarashtra, Gandhari and Kunti.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Thirty six years of Yudhishthira's reign was completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Many strange incidents took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">There was a sign of danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">But the danger was more to the Jadavas than to the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Krishna was born of the Jadu dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">The people of this dynasty are known as Jadavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The danger occurred because of a little cause.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">One day Maharrshi Viswamitra, Kannwa and Narada came to Dwaraka.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">They asked the Maharshis if this lady would give birth to a son or a daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">The Maharshis became angry at the trickery they played with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">They said that Shamva would give birth to an iron club.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">This club would destroy the Jadavas dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">Krishna knew that the time of destruction of the Jadu dynasty was knocking at the door.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">So he did nothing about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Next day Shamva gave birth to an iron club.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Krishna ordered them to crush the club and throw it into the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">It was done so.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Later Sharavan (a forest of arrows) grew in the place where the club was crushed.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">One day the Jadavas went on a pilgrimage to Pravasha.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">There they made much fun and frolic.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Suddenly they picked a quarrel that turned into a fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">They picked up the arrows from the Sharavan and started hitting each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">These caused their death.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">All this happened in front of Krishna's eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Then Krishna went in search of Balarama.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Balarama died in front of Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">The sad Krishna was lying in a forest after losing Balarama.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">All on a sudden a hunter shot an arrow at the feet of Krishna taking him for a deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">This caused Krishna's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">All this news reached Hastinapura.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Having received this ill news Arjuna rushed to Daraka.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">He started for Hastinapura with Bajro, the grandson of Krishna and the women folk of Daraka.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">A strange thing happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">No sooner had Arjuna left Daraka than it sank into the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">On the other hand Arjuna became powerless.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">On the way back Arjuna suffered in the hands of bandits.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Vyasa heard the tragic story of Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Then he said Arjuna should no longer stay in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">He had completed his work and hence the tragedy took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">The Jadavas dynasty was destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Krishna also died.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">This discouraged Yudhishthira to live any more in the land of the living ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Then Parikshita, son of Abhimanyu was made king.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">The Panchpandavas along with Draupadi left the kingdom for good.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">This was what they called the Mahaprasthan of the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">The citizens followed them with tears in the eyes for quite a long distance and then came back.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">The Pandavas and Draupadi advanced towards the Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">A dog followed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">They became tired of walking.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Draupadi, Shahadeva, Nakula, Arjuna and Bhima died one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Yudhishthira kept on going and the dog also followed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">After some time Devaraj Indra came to Yudhishthira in his chariot.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">He wanted to take Yudhishthira to heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">But Yudhishthira refused to go to heaven leaving Draupadi and his dear brothers behind.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Indra assured him that he would meet his wife and brothers in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Now the question of taking the dog to heaven arose.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Dogs were not allowed to enter heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">So Yudhishthira had to go to heaven without the dog.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Yudhishthira did not agree to that because the dog followed him so long though he suffered much.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">So he could not leave it behind.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Then the dog disappeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Dharma stood before Yudhishthira.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">This shows that you are a very pious man.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">You would go to heaven with this very body.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">Yudhishthira went to the heaven physically in the chariot of Indra.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">But he did not find peace even in the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">He did not want to stay in the heaven without Draupadi and his brothers with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">Yudhishthira expressed his desire to go to the place where they were staying.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Devaraj Indra could read the mind of Yudhishthira.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">He ordered the angels to take Yudhishthira to his wife and his brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">They were in the hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">One will have to go to the hell if one commits a sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">They committed sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">The angels proceeded towards the hell taking Yudhishthira with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Fire was burning there.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">The sinners were screaming as they were being fried in the boiling oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">Yudhishthira wanted to return from there at the sight of this.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">They said, O great Yudhishthira, all our sufferings in the hell have stopped because of your presence.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">A gentle breeze is blowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Yudhishthira wanted to know their identity.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">They started introducing themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">He got the identity of Draupadi, Shahadeva, Nakula, Arjuna and Vima along with many others.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">He said to the angel, I won't go to the heaven without my relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">Then Devaraj Indra said to Yudhishthira, It has been established that no one is as pious as you are.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">You don't want to enjoy heavenly bliss without your relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">You are great.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">You take a bath with me in the holy water of the river Mandakini.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Yudhishthira was blessed with divine body by taking a bath in the holy water of the river Mandakini.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">Then he was amazed to see Draupadi, Shahadeva, Nakula, Arjuna and Vima there.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">He also saw Kunti, Madri, Pandu, Vishma, Drona and many others.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">He met Krishna with all of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">They all started dwelling in the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">We have learnt the story of the Mahabharata in brief.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">This story is as good as ambrosia.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">The main theme of the story is that truth prevails over false.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">Truth prevails in the long run.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Religion is victorious everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">We will read the Mahabharata and follow the advice therein.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
