<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-hind-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.39</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">188</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">1679</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">615</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t30">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">This is our earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This earth is full of varieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">There is the blue sky above our head.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">It is endless.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">It has the sun, the moon, the planets and the satellites.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Numerous stars are also there.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The light of these stars is seen in the darkness of night.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">However, stars are not visible at day-light as sun-light hides them all.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The beauty of this earth is revealed by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Then we can see the mountains, rivers, fields and flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Various kinds of beasts, birds and insects are also seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Besides, there are human beings on this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Human beings are best of all creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Men have conscience and intellect.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">They can conquer everything by dint of their intellect.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">They can travel everywhere - the land, the sea and the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">That is why men are the best of all created beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">These sky, air, creatures and natural beauty were not created all on a sudden.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">There is one who has created these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">He is the Creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">This noble Creator is called Ishwara by us.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Ishwara is one and second to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">No one is greater than He is.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He can do every thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Every thing is under His control.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">No one has created Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">He is the creation of His own.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">So He is called self-born.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">What Ishwara does, is His Leela.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Leela is His amusement or delight or pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">This Leela is expressed in all his creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The entire universe is His Leela.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Ishwara is eternal and infinite.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">His Leela is diverse.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Endless is His glory.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The objective behind all his creations is to enjoy pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He has created the universe out of His pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The relation between Ishwara and his creation is very intimate.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">It is like the relation between children and their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Ishwara is the origin of all creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">He also exists in all His creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Ishwara has created us.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">He is nourishing us, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">So we have to please Him by our worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">We have to devote ourselves to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We have to feel His existence in our hearts.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">We have to keep our faith firmly in Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">In order to worship Ishwara, we have to love all his creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Loving His creations means loving Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">We know that Ishwara is Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">He has created everything of this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Ishwara is the Creator of all these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">More to it, He exists in all His created beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Amazingly enough, Ishwara creates the creatures as well as exists in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">But how does He exist there?</sent>
				<sent id ="56">He exists as soul and spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">There is Ishwara in all created beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">It means that He is the origin or source of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Finally, both the creation and the universe become one within Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">It is said in the Holy Book Upanishada that Ishwara exists in all animate and inanimate objects.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">According to Upanishada, Sarbang Khalbidang Brahma - everything is Brahma or Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Ishwara is playing with His Leela residing in the limit of His creatures and the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Since Ishwara resides in every created being, serving the creatures means serving Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">And Ishwara is also pleased when His creatures are served.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">So to love all is to love Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Swami Vivekananda says, He who has mercy on creatures, serves Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">This is why we should serve all creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">We should also serve all human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We should take care of our pet animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">We should plant trees and nourish them as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Thus we shall serve Ishwara who exists in all created beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Here is a story about serving all creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In the ancient times, there was a pious king.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">His name was Rontidev.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Once while observing Ajachak Brata, he started worshipping Bhagaban Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Ajachak Brata means not to beg anything from any body.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">It also means that one has to live on what others give him.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">King Rontidev had to spend forty-eight days starving.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He did not want food from anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Nobody gave him food, too, at his own will.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">On the forty- ninth day someone gave him some rice and payes.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He was about to take the food offered to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">At that time a lean and thin man came to the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The man was only skin and bone.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">He said, I did not get anything to eat for several days.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Please give me something to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He had a dog, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">It was also reduced to a skeleton like him.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The man also said, Not only me, my dog is also starving with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The king gave all his rice and payes to the man and his dog.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Suddenly something very strange happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The hungry man and his dog vanished in a moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">King Rontidev saw Bhagaban Srikrishna standing before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">King Rontidev fell upon the ground to make obeisance to Srikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Bhagaban Shrikrishna said, The example you have set for serving all creatures will remain immortal forever.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">You will have my mercy in this world and my company in the world hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Ishwara is Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">He is the controller of everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">He is gracious and merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He does good to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">So we should always remember Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">We should praise Him too.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">There shall remain no distress if we take His shelter.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It will make our life beautiful and happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">One can take his shelter through regular upasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Upasana is a kind of worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">So we should worship Him regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The word upa means close and asan means to sit.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">So the literal meaning of upasana is to sit close to Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">All our activities to get Ishwara are also called upasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Upansana also means to call Ishwara whole-heartedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Praying to Ishwara is also upasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Meditation, puja, praises, prayer - all these are various forms of upasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Upasana is an integral part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">It is necessary for us to keep our body and mind pure and healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Ishwara has many forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Upasana is of two kinds in the main: Idol worship and formless worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Idol Worship: Idol means a thing that has a shape or a form.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Idolatry or idol worship means worshipping Ishwara in some form or shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Many gods and goddesses are mentioned in the Holy Books of the Hindu religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">They are Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva, Kali, Lakshmi, Saraswati, Ganesh and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">These gods and goddesses are the physical expressions of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Gods and goddesses are incarnations of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">So we worship Ishwara by worshipping the gods and goddesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">A worshipper reaches Ishwara in physical form through idolatry.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Formless Worship: Formless is something that has no physical form or shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It also refers to something, which cannot be given a shape or a form.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Ishwara can be worshipped as an entity with no form or shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">10 The Creator And His Creation The shapeless and formless existence of Ishwara is called Brahmabhab.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The Brahma lies there as a spirit only.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">In a formless worship a devotee feels Ishwara in the depth of his or her heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">There the worshipper prays for his or her welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Either idolatry or formless - both are ways of worshipping Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It is said in the Holy book, Formless Brahma Himself takes a physical form, when it is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">It means the one who is shapelss is bodied also.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Bhagaban Shrikrishna says in Gita, As somebody worships me, so I shower my mercy on him or her.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It makes no difference whether we worship Ishwara as an idol or a shapeless entity.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Upasana is an everyday work.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">We worship Ishwara three times a day: morning, noon and evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">We need purity of our body and mind for worshipping Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">We have to wash and purify ourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">We can worship at temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It can also be done at our home.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">One has to sit before a god for one's worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Usually the worshipper sits straight facing north or east.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">There are many prescribed asans or sittings for worshipping Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">However, Padmaasan and Sukhasan are considered suitable for all kinds of worships.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Praise Ishwara during worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Think of His greatness and nobility.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Worship leads us to the path of honesty and religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">One should pray for the well-being of oneself and others during the worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Worship can be done individually.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It can also be done collectively with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">For collective worship everybody assembles in a temple on a particular day of the week.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Then they all pray together and utter different mantras silently.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Prayer means to want something.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It also means to beg something to Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Ishwara is the Creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">He is the sovereign Lord of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">We depend on His mercy for everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He is Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">So we pray to Him from the core of our heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Prayer is part of worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">We can pray to Ishwara even when we do not worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We pray to Him before we start any good work.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">We also pray to Him when we are in some danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">So we can pray to Him under any situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">But He cannot be worshipped anywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">As in worship, so in prayer the purity of body and mind is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Sunrise, midday and sunset - these are three special times for prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Generally, hands should be folded while praying to Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Modesty is also needed at the time of prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Modesty is a kind of feeling of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Prayer can also be done individually and collectively like worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">There are many mantras for prayer in our Holy Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">We should begin our work with the name of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">We should praise Him everytime we worship and pray.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">This is an integral part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Ishwara is pleased if we praise Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">It also makes us happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Great is the importance of worship and prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Both worship and prayer keep our body and mind fit and pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">They make our mind cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Constant worship and prayer lead human beings to the path of honesty and religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Thus we become honest and pious.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">We can develop ourselves step by step.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">We can feel Ishwara within our heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">We shall worship Ishwara and pray to Him at temples or at our homes.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
