<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-hind-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.518</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">715</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">6635</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1895</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t33">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Holiness and cleanliness are very important for life.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">It is, indeed, necessary to practise holiness and cleanliness to make our life beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Cleanliness makes our mind pure and cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Sanctity and cleanliness are integral parts of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">We should always remain neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Everybody likes the children who remain neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">And nobody likes the ones who are dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Clean children's teeth are dazzling bright.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Eyes are transparent.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Hair is tidy and neatly combed.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Dress is well washed and adjusted.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">On the other hand, unclean boys and children have dirty teeth and eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Hair is messy and untidy.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Dress is full of dirt.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">So everybody dislikes the unclean boys and girls.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Cleanliness means, in general, the dress and environment are beautiful and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Keeping the body and mind pleasant and tidy is also cleanliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The Holy Books have mentioned about the necessity of cleanliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">According such scriptures, cleanliness is called Suchita which means purity and sanctity.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">It is necessary to maintain cleanliness for social and religious purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">A sound mind lives in a sound body - this is what people say.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">It means that if your body is healthy, your mind is also pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">If the body is sick, the mind also sickens.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">So holiness and cleanliness are necessary to keep your body and mind pleasant.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Dirtiness causes various diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">If the organs and limbs of the body are not cleaned regularly, various troubles may happen.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Unclean teeth bring bad smell in the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It may cause sores in the gum.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Teeth should be cleaned early in the morning and before sleeping at night in order to prevent such diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Hands, mouth, teeth and eyes should be cleaned well after waking early in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Eyes and face should be washed with pure water several times a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The body should be wiped clearly by a towel while taking a bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Nails of hand should be trimmed after a few days.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Big nails help gather dirt under them.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">This dirt causes severe diseases after entering into our stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The whole body is to be washed by water.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The dirt of body has to be cleaned by towels during bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">After every two or three days one should take bath with soaps.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">So our body shall not get dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The pores of our skin are closed when the body is dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Sweats and other polluted materials can not get out of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">It causes skin diseases of various types.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">We should eat fresh and clean food.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Polluted food causes harm to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">There are germs of various diseases in the rotten, left-over and dirty food.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We should never take such food.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Instead we shall take fresh and good food.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">We should be careful about drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Water must be kept free of dirt and pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">We should always drink pure water.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">We must wash our hands, face and plates well before taking our food.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">We should also keep our clothes clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">It makes our mind cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Well washed and clean clothes are index of our good taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Clean dress keeps your body in good health too.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">On the other hand, unclean dress is the indicator of man's bad taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Dirty and unclean dress may cause illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Our duty is to keep our houses, living rooms, beds, reading table and environment neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Environment means everything around the place where we live.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Throwing dirty materials and wastages here and there pollutes the air and the surrounding.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Polluted air may cause various diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">So dirty materials and wastages should not be thrown here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">We have to develop the habit of cleanliness since our childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Cleanliness or sanctity is the part and parcel of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">It is the pre- condition of all prayers, worships, rituals and other religious activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Hands and face have to be washed properly before worship and prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Clean dress should be worn.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The necessity of taking baths and brushing teeth regularly is also mentioned in the Holy Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We knew earlier that cleanliness is purity and holiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">There are two kinds of holiness or sanctity mentioned in the religious books.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">External holiness means the cleanliness of body, dress, bed, environment etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">And internal holiness means the cleanliness of heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It means thinking honest and not being jealous of others etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Then the heart will be holy.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">External holiness is not enough for the prayer or worship of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Worship cannot be done without the purity of body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Holiness of heart is very important for prayer and worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Our heart can also be dirty just like our clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Thinking of evil and harmful things for others makes human mind unholy.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">So we should give up evil thinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It will make our mind sacred.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Our good thinking and desire for doing benefit to others purify our mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The mind becomes sacred.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">So we must shun evil thoughts and do honest thinking all the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Study and discussions of Holy Books and biographies of noble men augment the holiness and sanctity of human mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The holiness of mind makes it delightful.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">So we have to think of Ishwara and worship Him with a holy mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Cleanliness is also urgently needed to keep our body and mind holy.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">We should build the habit of cleanliness from our childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">We have to learn about the utility of holiness and cleanliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">We must keep in mind that holiness and cleanliness are pre-requisite to all religious activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">These are also parts of our religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Simplicity is a noble virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">It is a property of human character.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The easy and humble state of mind is called simplicity.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Only the religious and honest people have this quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Simplicity is expressed in conversation, manner, behaviour and even in the dress of a person.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">A person with simplicity hides no truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">He deceives none.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Humble is his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He is satisfied with simple clothes and common food.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">A simple person believes the words of his elders as true.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Simplicity is part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">A simple mind is fit for the meditation of Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">A person wins affection of all by dint of his nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Everybody loves a humble person.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">One cannot be religious without simplicity.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">We shall also become simple.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">We shall speak the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">We shall walk on the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">We shall not conceal truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">We shall not even hesitate to confess our own faults.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">We shall exercise simplicity in our day-to-day life.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Long long ago there lived a boy called Jatil and his mother in a village.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Jatil's father died.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">They were very poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Jatil used to go to a teacher in a school for his study.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">There was a deep forest on his way to school.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The walk went through the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Jatil was much afraid to walk alone there.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">One day he said to his mother weeping, Mother, Im afraid of going to school alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Give someone to accompany me.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Otherwise I shall not go to school.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Mother listened to Jatil and said, We are poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">How shall I appoint a man for you, my child?</sent>
				<sent id ="126">There lives an elder brother of yours in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">His name is Madhusudan.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Call him if you are afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He will go with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Jatil got some courage listening to his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">He has no more fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The elder Madhusudan will go with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">On the next day he again walked through the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Going ahead a little he called loudly, Madhusudan, O my elder, come quickly to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Im much frightened.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">But where was Madhusudan?</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Nobody came to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Jatil loved his mother very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He also trusted her.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">How could her mother tell a lie?</sent>
				<sent id ="141">In fact, Madhusudan is one of the names of Bhagaban.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">He got this name by killing a giant.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Jatil's mother told him of that Madhusudan.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Who is there more than Bhagaban for them who are poor and have- nots?</sent>
				<sent id ="145">So Jatil's mother asked him to rely on Bhagaban out of her good faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Jatil firmly believed that his elder Madhusudoan would come.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">He called again and again in a piteous voice, Madhusudan, O my elder, come to me quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Madhusudan could not disregard the humble faith of Jatil.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">He appeared before him in the guise of a boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">He said to Jatil, Look my little brother, I'm here.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">You have nothing to fear now.' Jatil was very much delighted.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">As they walked together Madhusudan told him many interesting stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Jatil was much delighted at that.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">So Bhagaban can be won by simplicity.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Men have many virtues including conscience and intellect.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">What do we mean by generosity?</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Generosity means to think all men equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">A generous man thinks no one as big or small.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">All persons, big or small, rich or poor, strong or weak are equal to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">There is no distinction between the self and other to a generous man.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He considers as his relatives all persons belonging to all religions, communities and countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Udaracharitanam tu basudhaiba kutumbokom - it means, everybody of this earth is a relative of a generous man.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">He considers other's misfortune as his own and tries hard to remove the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Without generosity one cannot be religious.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We shall be generous.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">We shall exercise generosity.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">It should be reflected in every sphere of our life and behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">You are not hurt by getting nothing if you are generous.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">On the other hand, your mind is full of delight and peace if you can do something for others.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The real happiness lies in generosity.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Let us listen to a story of a saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He forgot his own interest for the sake others.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Long long ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">There lived a saint called Dadhichi in the woods of Naimisharanya.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He worshipped Lord Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Wishing good for the others was one of the religious vows of his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">At that time, a giant called Britra became very powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He got a boon by dint of divine contemplation from Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The boon was that he could not be killed by any weapon.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">This made more and more aggressive.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He captured the kingdom of heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He drove out Devaraj Indra and other gods from the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The gods took shelter to Lord Shiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Lord Shiva advised them to go to Vishnulok or the realm of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">There Bhagaban Vishnu might give them appropriate advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The gods then went to Vishnulok and started eulogizing Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Vishnu was satisfied at their eulogy and said, Go all of you to the saint Dadhichi Muni of Naimisharanya.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The saint Dadhichi received them all with due respect and honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Then they wanted to know the purpose of their coming.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Devoraj Indra informed him of their problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">They must find out the way to kill the giant Britra, the oppressor.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">They must restore the kingdom of heaven from his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">I shall do good to gods even at the cost of my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Please listen to me, Devoraj.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">One day this mortal body of mine shall perish.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">I shall just now leave out my body for your sake.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">If I die you can kill the giant Britra with the weapon made of my bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">My bones are not traditional weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The saint Dadhichi left out his body by dint of his yoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Then Vishwakarma, the engineer among all gods, made Bajra or thunder with the bones of Dodichi's body.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Indra killed the giant Britra with this thunder.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Thus the lost kingdom of heaven was regained.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Everybody praised the generosity of Dadhichi Muni.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Generosity is part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Saint Dadhichi Muni complied with his religion and became immortal in his death.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Good manners mean the manners which are gentle.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">It also means soft and polite behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Any beautiful behaviour is a good manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Good manners are great qualities of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Men are different from animals and birds for these qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Good manners are like ornaments of honest and religious persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Every pious person owns this quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Men's heart can be won by good manners.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">You can win love of man if you have this quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">A good manner is a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">So we shall always behave befitting good manners.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">We shall never behave in a bad and impolite way.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">We shall remain gentle to our elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">We shall put questions to them politely.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">We shall reply to their questions politely.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">We shall show affection to our younger ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">We shall behave well with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">We shall exercise good manners in our daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Our parents, other elderly members of the family and our Gurus or preceptors always wish us good.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">They always advise us for our well- being.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">It is our duty to follow their advice and to show respect to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">We show respect to Ishwara by showing respect to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Ishwara is the Creator of everything of this universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">He has created everything from a particle of dust to a big mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">But we cannot see this beneficial Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">It is really difficult to show respects to Ishwara directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Our parents, superiors and elderly persons are in front of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">We feel the presence of Ishwara through them.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">To offer our devotion and reverence to them means to offer the same to Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">When we make obeisance to their feet, it reaches Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">According to Holy Books, Pritrideva Bhaba, Matrideva Bhaba, Acharyadeva Bhaba.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">It means, we have to seek God in our father, mother and preceptor.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">According to Holy Books, Pita Swarga Pita Dharma Pita Hi Paramantapah.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Pitari Preetimapanne Preeyante Sarbadevata.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">It means father is the heaven, mother is the religion and father is the absolute devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">All gods are pleased, if father is pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">About mother the Holy Books say, Bhumergareeyosee Mata.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Trishu Lokeshu Nasti Matrisamo Guruh.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">It means mother is greater than heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">In the three worlds there is no preceptor as great as mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Here we can see that parents are direct Ishwara to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">To serve and obey them is to serve Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">So parents and superiors should be respected as Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">There are many stories about this in the Holy Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Two stories are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">In the ancient times, there was a saint called Bajshraba.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">The name of his son was Nachiketa.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Nachiketa was a boy then.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Bajshraba was performing sacrificial ceremony for Vishwajit.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">He bought some aged and sickly cows for offering.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">His purpose would not be served either.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Rather it was better for his father to sacrifice Nachiketa, which would completely serve his purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Thinking so Nachiketa said to his father, Tell me father, whom you will offer me to?</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Nachiketa decided to keep the words of his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Then he said, Send me to the god of death, father.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Let your promise be kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Father said, I told it out of anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">I did not mean it at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Nachiketa said, Father, you are a truth-seer saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The promise of a saint is never broken.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">You should keep your words by sending me to the god of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Nachiketa went to the god of death to keep his father's words.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">In the ancient times, there was a Brahmin named Kaushik.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">He gained supernatural powers by meditation and studying Holy Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">One day he was reading the Vedas attentively sitting under a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">There was a crane sitting on that tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Suddenly the crane made stool and it fell upon Kaushik's body.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Kaushik was much furious at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">He gazed upwards angrily.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">In a moment the crane fell down dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Kaushik was proud to discover his powers.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">97Hindu Religious Studies A few days later Kaushik went to a village for alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">He entered a house.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The housewife asked him to sit down and went inside the house to bring him alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The housewife was making delay to come back.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">It made him furious, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">He looked at the housewife with anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Then the housewife smiled a little and said, I am not that crane.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Kaushik was surprised to hear that.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">The housewife said about the event that had happened to him earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">She must possess supernatural powers.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The housewife was very pious.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">She used to perform her duties properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Kaushik talked to her about religion and responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Then the housewife said to Kaushik, Please go to Mithila.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">There lives Dharmabyadh.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">He will tell you about religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Kaushik went to Mithila.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">He saw Dharmabyadh selling meat there.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Dharmabyadh also saw Kaushik.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">He came close to the newcomer.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Then he said, That pious housewife has sent you here.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">I know why you have come here.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Kaushik was surprised to hear that.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">How could a meat-seller know about the unknown matters!</sent>
				<sent id ="301">How could he tell the things that happen in other's mind!</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Dharmabyadh could read Kaushik well.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">He took him to his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Dharmabyadh said to Kaushik, Selling meat is our family tradition.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">It is our profession from generation to generation.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">I don't kill animals myself.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">I sell the meat of animals killed by others.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">I don't even eat meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Everyone has a tradition of his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">It's not a sin to follow this tradition.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Dharmabyadh told also about his supernatural powers.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">He attained this power by serving his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Parents were everything to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">They are gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">They are Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">He used to serve his old parents first.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Then he cared for other things.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">At last Dharmabyadh said to Kaushik, You have come here without your parents consent.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">You have not done the right thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">They are now bed-ridden in your grief.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Go back to your home quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Make your parents happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Otherwise all your religious activities will go in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">There is no better religion on earth than serving one's parents.' Kaushik got surprised again.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Dharmabyadh disclosed his earlier life.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">He said to Dharmabyadh, A pious man like you is very rare.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">I am lucky to meet you.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">I shall go back to my home right now.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">I shall serve my parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Saying this, Kaushik showed respect to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Then he made his way back to his home.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">We are human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">We live together in a society.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">It also means doing the duties in time.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">For example, reading at the time of reading, playing at the time of playing.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Perseverance means continuous endeavours.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">If you cant do it at one attempt then try it hundred times.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">No man can prosper in life without perseverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Keeping promises is also a quality of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Keeping promises means to maintain consistency in words and deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">It is also a religious virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Keeping promises brings virtue to oneself and welfare to a society.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">It is a sin not to keep a promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Breaking promises brings chaos and evil in a society.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Patriotism is also a noble virtue of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">It is a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Patriotism means to love the country where we live in.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">It also means to work for the development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Above all it means to protect a country's independence from external aggression.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">More to it, a man has to apply them in his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">We shall practise keeping promises, showing our patriotism and other attributes of similar kind.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Karna was a famous hero of the Mahabharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Great king Duryodhana gave him the kingdom and established him as a king.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">It is described in the Mahabharata that many of the gods helped either the Kauravas or the Pandavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">For example, Devaraj Indra was on the side of the Pandavas, especially for Arjuna.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">On the other hand, Suryadeva was on the side of the Kauravas.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Karna was born with a koboch and a kundal.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">These were natural koboch and kundal.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">A koboch is an armour, a metallic coat to protect one from the blow of a weapon.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">A kundal means an ear-ring.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">At that time the warriors used to wear both armours and ear-rings.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">He thought Karna was invincible for his natural koboch and Karna and Indra in the guise of a Brahmin kundal.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">It means no one can kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">If his koboch and kundal are taken away, he would be weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Then Arjuna could defeat him early Thinking this Devaraj Indra came to him as a Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">He would ask for both koboch and kundal as gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">If Karna gave the same, he would be weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">And if he did not give it, he would do an irreligious act by not keeping his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">It will bring him bad names.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Devaraj Indra wanted the koboch and the kundol from Karna as gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Karna said, O Brahmin, want something else.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">These koboch and kundal are parts of my body.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">I am invincible for these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">If you want land, cattle, elephants, horses, houses or even kingdom, I will give it to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">But Indra in the guise of a Brahmin was irrevocable.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">He would not take anything other than the koboch and the kundal.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">What else to do? Karna cut the koboch and the kundal to separate them from his body.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Then he gave them to Indra.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Karna did so knowing fully well that it might cause him some danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">This is how he kept his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">He became famous for what he did.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">We shall also follow him and keep our promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Keeping promise is also a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Jona and her son Prabir set a glorious example of patriotism.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">We know the story of their true patriotism.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Now we will learn about another patriotic lady.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Her name is Bidula.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Both the stories are written in letters of gold in the Mahabharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">The kingdom was called Sauvir.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Bidula was the noble queen of this kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">The king of Sauvir and Bidula had a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">His name was Sanjay.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">When Sanjay was a young boy, the king died suddenly.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">At that time the king of Sind took this opportunity and attacked the kingdom of Sauvir.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Sanjay was defeated easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The king of Sind occupied the kingdom of Sauvir without much effort.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Losing the kingdom the frustrated Sanjay lay on the ground with a pale face.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">He made no more attempt to regain his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">But Bidula could not tolerate such subjugation by an external power.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">She inspired his son Sanjay to prepare for a war against the occupants.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">She censured him and said, It seems that you are not my son.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">My son can never be a coward like you.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Remember your father, the valiant king of Sauvir.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">How powerful and courageous he was!</sent>
				<sent id ="405">He could never tolerate such domination by others.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Be fearless, defeat the enemy and reoccupy the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Sanjay said, If I get killed in the war, what will you do with the whole world, mother?</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Bidula got very angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">She said, Death for freedom is the death of a hero.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">We must die some day.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Man becomes immortal even after his death in a religious war and he wins heaven in the next world.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">So go to war like a hero with the vow Freedom or death.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Sanjay could realize his mistake at his mother's inspiring words.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">He fought bravely against the enemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">The king of Sind was defeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Sanjay regained his lost kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">The kingdom of Sauvir trembled with the victorious cries of all its subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">They congratulated their king.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">And Bidula became memorable for his unique example of patriotism.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Bidula's patriotism was so deep and incomparable.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Keeping the truth is also an act of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Say right to the right; say good to the good.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Keeping the truth means never to take shelter of falsehood.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">There is no act of religion greater than truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Truth is Ishwara-like.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Speaking the truth makes everybody happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">It makes Ishwara happy, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Speaking the truth is a virtue and telling a lie is a vice.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">No one likes the persons who do not keep promises and truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Those who keep the truth are respected by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">They become immortal even after their death.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Here is a story of keeping the truth from the Mahabharata.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">In the ancient times, there was a king called Prahlad.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">He belonged to the dynasty of demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Demons are always malicious to Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">But Prahlad was a devotee of Vishnu since his boyhood in spite of his birth in a demon family.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">For this reason his father Hirinykashipu tried to kill him on several occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">But he was saved by the mercy of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Contrary to it, his father was killed by Vishnu, who came in the guise of Nrisingha.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Prahlad never went away from truth even at a time when his life was at stake.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Keeping the truth was the vow of his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">After his father's death Prahlad became the king and ruled over his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Prahlad always complied with truth while ruling his country.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">King Prahlad had a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">His name was Biracan.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Biracan became famous as a courageous hero.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">But the young Biracan was very ill- tempered.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">He was proud of being a prince and a learned man.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">As a proud man he did not look at Sudhanna affectionately.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Sudhanna was of his age.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">He was the son of Saint Angira.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">The relation between the two was not good at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Once there was a debate between the two on who was greater.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">This greatness was not of age, but of wisdom and virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Biracan said, Im superior.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Sudhanna replied, No, it cant be so.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">I am superior to you in all respects.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Then the matter went to the court of king Prahlad.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Sudhanna said, O the great king, please decide who is wiser between the two of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Sudhanna also told the king, I know, you always keep the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Heaven cannot be attained by telling a lie.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">So please keep the truth in your judgment.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">The king listened to everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Then he thought for a while.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">But he is a bit boastful.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">Moreover, he is ill-tempered.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">So you are superior to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">You possess in a greater extent the qualities like truthfulness, generosity, sacrifice and self-control.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Once again the king Prahlad proved his nobility by keeping the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">He did not do partiality out of his affection for his own son.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Everybody was full of praise for king Prahlad.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Keeping the truth is, indeed, an act of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">This earth is the dwelling place of diverse people.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">Their clothes, manners, behaviours, customs and religion are also different.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">We are the Hindus.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">The customary name of our religion is Hinduism.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">This religion is very ancient.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">It prevailed in the past, it is prevailing at present and it will prevail in future, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">This is why it is called Sanatana Dharma or eternal religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">It means the religion that exists for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">There are many religions in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">For example, Buddhism, Christianity, Islam etc. Religion originates from Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">It is true of all religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">One can reach the same Creator by observing one's own religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">To be obedient to one's own religion is the instruction of all the Holy Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">We call the Creator Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">The Christians call Him God.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">The Muslims call Him Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">In fact, Ishwara, God and Allah are the different names of the same Creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">The same Ishwara has been in different religions, in different languages, in different names.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">There are differences of opinions and ways of worship and prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">But the basic principle of all religions is the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">And it is the fact that Ishwara exists.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">We must gain His mercy and do good to all created beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">The common purpose of all religions is to attain one's salvation and to do good to all creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">So we should not neglect any religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">Ishwara Himself does not do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">It means that I satisfy one the way one worships me.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">Men follow my way in all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">From this point of view Paramhangsadeva said, many views, many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">So we must have respect for all religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">We should keep in mind that all human beings are the creation of the same Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">We shall not consider the religion, the caste and the colour one may belong to.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">We shall remain sympathetic to all irrespective of their caste, religion and colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">We shall accept the followers of other religions as our friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">There is no difference among human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">This world will be a wonderful place if religious equality is maintained in this manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">The brotherhood among people shall develop rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Everybody shall love one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">Nobody shall hate others.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">We shall utter, All men of all religions are brothers to one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">The sense of equality shall grow, if we remember that Ishwara exists in all created beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">And the world shall become an abode of peace if the sense of equality wakes up.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">Chapter Six Avotar (Incarnation) Ishwara is Almighty and Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">Sometimes Ishwara comes down to the earth for the well-being of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">This coming down of Ishwara is called descending.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">He descends in any earthly appearance.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">This is called Avotar.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">Ishwara appears on the earth hiding his riches by dint of his illusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">So, common people cannot recognize him.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">He looks like exactly as he appears.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">For example, when he appears as a human being, he is seen to behave like a common person.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">Like a man he takes birth from a mother's womb.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">Like a man he possesses hunger, thirst, infirmity and diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">But in spite of these characteristics, he has some distinction.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">He owns some special qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">He becomes a great man.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">Avotar (Incarnation) can be classified mainly into three categories.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">Anghsha Avotar: Avotar with the partial (incomplete) figure of Ishwara is called Angsho Avotar.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">For example Matsya, Kurma, Baraha, Nrishingha, Bamana, Parshurama, Rama, Balarama, Buddha and Kalki.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">This world of ours does not always remain the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">Sometimes there exist very adverse situations.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">There come some awful disasters, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">Evil powers defeat auspicious powers.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">Men take the shelter of irreligion instead of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">Groans are heard all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Having witnessed the same, the hearts of some great men cry out.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">They pray eagerly to Ishwara to get rid of distress and suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">The merciful Ishwara then becomes sympathetic to suffering humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">He appears on the earth responding to his devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">He comes to establish peace driving out disorders.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">He comes to destroy the miscreants, to save the virtuous and to establish religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">Then he takes birth on this earth assuming some form.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">We call this state of Ishwara Avotar.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">It means, whenever religion is disgraced and irreligion increases, I appear then.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">So, Avotars have three types of activities: to save the virtuous to destroy the miscreants and to establish religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">Besides, mass education is also another objective of all Avotars.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">The Avotars are majestic in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">An Avotar is a living role model to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">He teaches us religion referring to the events of his own life.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">Countless people gather before him and seek peace under the shelter of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">Common people may come in cintanct with an Avotar and attain salvation quite easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">Redeeming the sinners is also a special duty of all Avotars.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">We cannot easily guess Ishwara who has endless We get Him close to us in the figure of an Avotar.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">We get blessed at His nearness.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">He fulfills the desire of our mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">Men praise the Avotars for ages together.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">They worship them.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">Innumerable Avotars are mentioned in the Puranas.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">Here we will get acquainted with ten prominent Avotars.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">Introduction of ten Avotars: According to Purana Bhagaban Vishnu has revealed himself in ten Avotars.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">They are Matysa, Kurma, Baraha, Nrisingha, Bamana, Parshurama, Rama, Balarama, Buddha and Kalki.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">Thousands years back there lived a very pious king named Satyabrata.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">At that time the earth was suffering many kinds of oppressions.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">The pious king prayed for the mercy of Ishwara and the welfare of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">One day king Satyabrata was taking his bath in a pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">Then a Punti fish came to the king and begged for its life.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">He took the fish in his bowl and brought it home.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">The fish grew up hugely day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">It could not be contained in the pond, the lake or the river wherever it was kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">Everybody got scared to see it growing so large.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">Then the king began to praise the fish taking it as God.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">At this the frontal part of the fish turned into Narayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">The Narayana in the figure of fish said, Satyabrata, the time of universal dissolution will appear within seven days.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">At that time a golden boat will come to your wharf.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">You would get into the boat with all types of creatures in couples, food grains and seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">I will appear then as a horned fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">You would fasten the boat with my horn.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">The dissolution began.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">The king followed the direction of Narayana in the guise of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">The boat was saved from destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">When the dissolution was over the king came down with everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">Every thing was created again in a gradual manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Thus the creations and the Vedas were saved by the Matsya Avotar.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">Once the demons living under the earth defeated the gods and occupied the kingdom of heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">The distress of the gods knew no bound.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">Then Brahma and Indra went to Shrihari and discribed their distress in details.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">Shrihari suggested the gods to churn the sea along with the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">He said that nectar would come out of the sea as a result of churning.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">By drinking that nectar the gods will get back their strength to defeat the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">The gods started the process of churning.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">The mountain Mandar was the churning stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">And the snake Basuki was the churning string.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">The huge mountain Mandar began to sink under the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">The gods began to invoke Shrihari whole-heartedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="596">Shrihori then entered the sea in the guise of a huge kurma, which means a turtle.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">He held the mountain Mandar on his back.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">The process of churning continued.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">Nectar came out of the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">Gods drank the nectar.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">Then they defeated the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">Gods got their kingdom of heaven back.</sent>
				<sent id ="603">And thus Narayana as the Kurma saved the three worlds.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">Once the earth was sinking down the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">Then Shrihari appeared as Baraha or pig and saved the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">He with his huge teeth held the earth above the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">The earth was saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">Besides this, Shrihari in the figure of a Baraha did another great thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">Hiranyaksha, the king of the demons was an oppressor.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">He established peace on the earth by killing Hiranyaksha.</sent>
				<sent id ="611">Hiranyakshipu was the brother of Hiranyaksha, the king of the demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">Hiranyakshipu became very angry to hear that Shrihari had killed Hirohyaksha.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">He looked for an opportunity to take revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">Gradually he became very much malicious to Ishwara.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">But the strange thing was that, his only son Prahlad was devoted to Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">Hirannyakshipu asked his son to leave the company of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">But Prahlad did not agree to do that.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">At this Hiranyakshipu got very angry with Prahlad.</sent>
				<sent id ="619">He tried to kill him in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">But God Vishnu saved him.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">One day Hiranyakshipu asked Prahlad, Where does your Vishnu live?</sent>
				<sent id ="622">Prahlad replied, God Vishnu is everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">Hiranyakshipu: (showing a pillar nearby) Does Vishnu exist even in this pillar?</sent>
				<sent id ="624">Prahlad: Yes father, he is here also.</sent>
				<sent id ="625">Hiranyakshipu then kicked the pillar and broke it.</sent>
				<sent id ="626">At once God Vishnu appeared from inside the pillar in the figure of Nrisingha.</sent>
				<sent id ="627">Nrisingha with his dreadful nails rent the chest of Hiranyakshipu.</sent>
				<sent id ="628">Thus Hiranyakshipu was killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="629">Devotees of Vishnu got rid of his oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">Once there was a king named Bali.</sent>
				<sent id ="631">He was the king of demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="632">Bali conquered the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="633">Gods were in danger losing the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="634">Then Vishnu came to save the gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="635">He took the appearance of a Bamana (a dwarf).</sent>
				<sent id ="636">Bali was a great donor.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">One day Bamana went to Bali and wanted a land of three steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">Three steps only.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">Bali agreed to it laughing.</sent>
				<sent id ="640">At 123Hindu Religious Studies once Bamana took a huge size.</sent>
				<sent id ="641">He kept one step on the heaven and the other on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="642">There was no place to keep his third step.</sent>
				<sent id ="643">So Bali told him to keep it on Bali's head.</sent>
				<sent id ="644">This is how gods got their lost heaven back.</sent>
				<sent id ="645">In the beginning of the age Treta the kings of the Kshatriyas became very powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="646">They became unruly.</sent>
				<sent id ="647">They did not want to follow any religious instructions.</sent>
				<sent id ="648">They disregarded the virtuous persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="649">Religion began to abolish from the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="650">In such a situation the great saint Richik started to meditate in order to awaken religious atmosphere in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="651">Being pleased at his meditation, Vishnu took birth as grandson of Richik and son of Jamdagni.</sent>
				<sent id ="652">He was named Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="653">Rama was the worshipper of Mahadeva.</sent>
				<sent id ="654">Being pleased at his worship Mahadeva gave Rama a Parshu or an axe.</sent>
				<sent id ="655">This Parshu was his weapon.</sent>
				<sent id ="656">No one could defeat him as long as he carried this axe in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="657">After this axe or Parshu he was named Parshurama.</sent>
				<sent id ="658">Porshuram destroyed the oppressor Kshatriyas fighting twenty one times against them.</sent>
				<sent id ="659">So peace was established in the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="660">The people of earth got rid of oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="661">Rama Avotar: It was the last of the age of Treta.</sent>
				<sent id ="662">Rakshas king Ravana had become very powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="663">He conquered the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="664">He oppressed the gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="665">There was disorder again on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="666">This time god took birth as Rama in the house of pious king Dasharatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="667">Rama with his wife Sita and brother Lakshmana went to the forest to abide by the truth of his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="668">Ravana kidnapped Sita from this forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="669">There was a terrible fight between Rama and Ravana for rescuing Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="670">Ravana was destroyed along with his entire family.</sent>
				<sent id ="671">Rama rescued Sita.</sent>
				<sent id ="672">The earth was saved from the oppression of the Rakshas.</sent>
				<sent id ="673">There was peace back again in the heaven and earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="674">We can know everything about Rama from the Ramayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="675">It was the age of Dwapor.</sent>
				<sent id ="676">At that time many of the kings of the earth had become oppressors.</sent>
				<sent id ="677">Their oppression caused disorder on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="678">Then God appeared as Balarama for the peace of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="679">Balarama's father was Vasudeva.</sent>
				<sent id ="680">He was the elder brother of Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="681">Balarama was the greatest hero of Goda War.</sent>
				<sent id ="682">He used to have a plough in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="683">He fought with this hal or plough-shaped weapon.</sent>
				<sent id ="684">So he is called haldhar or haliram.</sent>
				<sent id ="685">Balarama punished many oppressor kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="686">It removed the distress of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="687">Peace and religion were established in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="688">On this our earth eternal peace is never established.</sent>
				<sent id ="689">Disorder has taken place again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="690">Violence became more serious.</sent>
				<sent id ="691">Many beasts were being sacrificed in the sacrificial ceremonies.</sent>
				<sent id ="692">It seemed that the offering and sacrifice was the one and only act of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="693">Then God appeared as Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="694">He took birth as the son of king Shuddhudhon.</sent>
				<sent id ="695">He was named Gautam.</sent>
				<sent id ="696">He was known as Buddha after acquiring Bodhi or wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="697">Goutama Buddha asked to stop killing animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="698">He showed men the way to peace preaching the Message of non-violence.</sent>
				<sent id ="699">The principle of his religion was, `Serving creatures and `non- violence is the absolute act of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="700">There is no other great act of religion than non-violence.</sent>
				<sent id ="701">Present age is the Koli age or Iron Age.</sent>
				<sent id ="702">The distinguishing characteristics of this age are falsehood and shrewdness.</sent>
				<sent id ="703">At this age, natural calamities like diseases, epidemics, grief, excessive rainfall, drought etc. will occur on this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="704">This will lead many people to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="705">Many people will be oppressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="706">There will be no peace or happiness in human mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="707">Then God will appear as Kalki.</sent>
				<sent id ="708">Kalki will become a great scholar studying the Vedas from very early age.</sent>
				<sent id ="709">Being stricken with the distress of the creatures he will start worshipping Mahadeva.</sent>
				<sent id ="710">He will get skilled in the art of bowmanship.</sent>
				<sent id ="711">In his hand he will have a large sword.</sent>
				<sent id ="712">He will kill the oppressors with this sword.</sent>
				<sent id ="713">Destress of the people will be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="714">There will be peace on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="715">The golden age will flourish again.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
