<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-islam-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.653</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">243</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2427</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">885</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t37">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Once a person asked the great Prophet (Sm)- The most Gracious Allah has blessed human beings with innumerable gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Which is the most valuable one among these?</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The great Prophet (Sm) said: Good character is the most precious gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">And if this person is of old age then everybody respects him.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Every body says that his character is good.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Every one has conscience, has intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Everybody can understand which is good and which is bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Now we shall learn, what are the good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">To support them, to help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">To behave well with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">To be on good terms with the neighbours, to stand by them in their dangers and difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">To behave well with the classmates, to speak the truth, to respect the teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">To respect the elders and to be affectionate to the younger, to love them.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">to caress them.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">These deeds and qualities are called Akhlaq.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">To tell lies, not to honuor the elders and not to be affectionate to the youngers.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">To break promises, to misbehave with orphans, beggars, poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Not to be neat and clean, to cause sufferings to somebody.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Oppression, terrorism, drug addiction etc. are always considered as bad practices to people.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">But we shall acquire the best qualities of the character and abstain from the blamable sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">93Religious Studies: Is We live in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">There are rich people as well as the poor ones and also there are the needy ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">There are people who don't have money and wealth or landed property.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">If they have any, that is very small in quantity.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">They are poor and needy.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">They don't get food according to their need, don't get clothes, place to live, nursing or treatment in illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Because they are needy and poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">They suffer from the scarcity of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">They don't have money to buy food, clothes and medicine .</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Their life is very miserable.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">We shall serve and help them always within our capability.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">I was without clothes; you did not give me clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">I was sick, you did not nurse me.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Men will say, oh Almighty!</sent>
				<sent id ="35">You are free from all these necessities.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">I would have been glad.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">We have come to know that, Allah becomes happy if we help human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He becomes much more happy if we serve and help the needy ones and the destitutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">We have mango, berry, jackfruit, coconut trees at our home.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">We have also the lichi, banana and papaya trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">We shall distribute some of the fruits of these trees to the neighbours around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They will be happy at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">They will be much more happy, if they are poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">At this Allah will be satisfied with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Like fruits and grains we shall give the neighbours some vegetables, onions, garlics.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We shall be rewarded at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Allah becomes happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Similarly we shall distribute clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">This is worth of rewards.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Allah has instruction regarding this matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">We shall show kindness to the other creations of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">We shall not cause pain to any animals, beasts and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">We shall take care of domestic animals too.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">There is in one Hadith: Once a woman saw a dog.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The dog was very much thirsty and it was about to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The woman felt sympathy.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">She held water at the dog's mouth bringing from a near by well.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The dog got comfort drinking water and got its life back.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The woman showed kindness to the Allah's creature and nursed it.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">For this Allah was pleased with her.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The woman had many vices in her life.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The most Merciful Allah forgave all her vices.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The Prophet (Sm) said, show kindness to everything on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Allah will be kind to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The rule of Islam is to behave well with all, not to oppress any one.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">We shall abide by the rules of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">We shall behave well with everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">We shall not cause pain to anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We shall not hurt anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">We shall not tell lies, we shall help each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">We shall visit if somebody becomes sick or falls in a danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">We shall serve him, show sympathy to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">We shall help the poor, beggars and needy people secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">We shall take care of the orphans.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">We shall give food at the mouth of the hungry ones, clothes to clothless.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">We shall teach the illiterates.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">We shall not cause pain to animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">We shall not keep them without food.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">We shall not beat them cruelly.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">We shall plant trees, preferring fruit trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">We shall take care of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Trees help us in many ways to lead our lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">There exists a poisonous gas in air, which is very much harmful for our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">This can cause our death.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">This is called carbon-di- oxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The trees suck in carbon-di-oxide from air and exhales Oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">We live inhaling oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Have we ever thought, how a great friend of us tree is!</sent>
				<sent id ="89">We shall behave well with this friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">We shall not cut down the trees, thoughtlessly.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">We shall keep the environment habitable planting trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">We shall make environment beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">At this all the animals will be benefited.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In this way we shall serve and take care of the creations of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Allah will be kind to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Forgiveness is a great virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Human beings are Ashraful Makhlukat.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">This means the best of the creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">So men are very much dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Allah loves men.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Men get involved very often in sins and mistakes at the instigation of Saitan (devil).</sent>
				<sent id ="102">After that when he repents, he prays to Allah for forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">They take oath not to be involved in any sin in future.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Then the Merciful Allah forgives him.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">If somebody confesses his crime, we shall forgive him.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">We shall behave well with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">We shall advice him to be good.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">We shall pray to Allah for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">If someone gets involved in misdeeds out of poverty, we shall try to remove his poverty away.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Allah is Forgiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">He likes forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">He should be punished.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Then he will not commit sin again.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The others will not dare to inflict pain to others unnecessarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Then there will be peace in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">This is the teaching of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Bangladesh is our dear birth land.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">We love our country with all our heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">We will feel deep pleasure and get peace in our mind when we think about Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Bangladesh is a beautiful, green country.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The scenery of green grains, green forests, trees, grass and creepers covering the horizon, is very pleasant.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">So Bangladesh is our dear land.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">You are my birth land, I love you.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">If my own tribe would not have compelled me To leave my country, I would have never left you behind.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We love our country very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">And we love all the resources of the country very much also.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Everybody of us should pay attention towards the resources of the country, so that these are not wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">These are not right things to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It is not right to spoil the flowering trees and plant, planted in rows by road side of the streets.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Those who commit this type of offences, are the enemies of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">At the finishing of the cooking the gas cooker should be turned off.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Many do not turn off cookers when the cooking is finished resulting misuse of gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Many do not turn off the water taps of the toilets and bathrooms, and uses more water than they need.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This causes the misuse of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The country can prosper if we can stop these types of misuses.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Meaning: Do not misuse.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Certainly Allah does not like the misusers.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">We shall love our country, stop misusing of all kind of resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">We shall forbid the neighbours and friends to do any kind of misuse.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Allah has created this world in a beautiful way.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">He has instructed mankind to make a beautiful good living place.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Many disorders can be created in many ways, danger and difficulties may come.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Allah has nominated men as the Prophet's representatives, so that no unrest takes place.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Caliph means representative.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">All of us should abide by the orders and prohibitions of Allah and the Prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">If we want to do that, we have to do good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">We have to cooperate others to do good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">And we have to resist if some body commits any crime or offensive deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Then there will be prosperity every where.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The justice will be established everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">It will be possible to preserve the law and order situation of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The torture of the oppressor will be stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The fighting, murder and malice and hatred would be erradicated.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Nobody will oppress any one.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">There would be peace in the whole world.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Men can live peacefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">As a result the worship of Allah would be performed easily and comfortably.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Meaning : Cooperate/help each other in doing good and do not help any body to commit sins and evil works.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">We shall help each other in doing good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">We shall help, people of the locality carrying soil on head for constructing the roads.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">We shall also take part in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">We shall participate in the cleaning of the surroundings of the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">We shall join the cleaning of the water-hyacinths from the adjacent ponds of the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">We shall teach the illiterate helping hands of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We shall abide by the commands of Allah and the Prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Honesty and truthfulness are great virtues of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">He who possesses this virtue, he is called honest and truthful.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Honesty is very much dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">So Allah loves the person, who possesses this quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Honesty always leads men to honest deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Honest deeds show him the way to heaven (Jannat).</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Honesty abstained men from sins and crimes.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He will be compelled to confess.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Then he will be punished.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He will be ashamed and will not commit sin henceforth.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Once a man came to the Prophet (Sm) and said that he has committed quite a few sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">He has determined to give up one from them firstly.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He asked the Prophet (sm), which one will he give up at first?</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The Prophet (sm) advised him to give up firstly to tell lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Afterwards that man never told a lie.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">We shall come to know now a beautiful incident about honesty and truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">His mother said him to spent the gold coins from the sleeve, if there will be any need for money.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">On the way a group of dacoits attacked their group.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The dacoits snatched away whatever they got searching every one's body.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">He said to the dacoit, his mother sewed forty gold coins inside the sleeves of his dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The dacoit instantly brought out the gold coins cutting his sleeve.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Why had he disclosed that?</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Hazrat Abdul Quader Jilani (R) said, his mother ordered him to speak the truth always.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">So he did not conceal it.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The gang leader returned him back the gold coins charmed by his honesty.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The gang leader along with his group was charmed hearing this utterance of the boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">They all prayed for forgivness and gave up plundering forever.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">So honesty and truthfulness are so dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">We shall learn another story about honesty: Hazrat Omar (R) was the second Caliph of Islamic State.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Justice prevailed in all spheres of his state.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The judgment was used to be dispensed immediately after occurring any thing unjust.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">There was rule for appropriate punishment for punishable crimes.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">At one night he happened to come near a small hut when he was moving around the streets of Medina.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">He heard the conversation of a mother and her daughter inside the hut.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The daughter said to her mother if the Caliph could know this, they would be punished severely.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The mother said, the Caliph or the people of the Caliph could not see this.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Nobody can escape His eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">He is Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Allah is always watching everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Caliph Omar (R) returned back to home after hearing this conversation of the mother and the daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">He was specially charmed by the honesty and truthfulness of the girl.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He arranged the marriage of his eligible and dear son with that truthful daughter of the poor woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">This girl was the grandmother of another righteous Caliph Omar Ibn Abdul Aziz (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The parents are the nearest persons to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">None can love us more than our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Our parents love us more than their lives after we are born in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">They bring up us, clean our bodily excretion at our infanthood with great care.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Very often they feed us without taking food themselves if there is want of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">They do not sleep at all, in our illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Their worries continue until we recover fully.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">They feel pleasure in our joy, and feel sorry in our pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Allah said in Holy Quran: Rabbirhamhuma Kama Rabbaanee Sagira.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">It is our duty to be obedient always to our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">We have to honor and respect them.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">We should take care of them always when we grow up.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">If our parents are pleased on us Allah will be pleased with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">If the parents are not happy, we shall be deprived from the bounty of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Now we shall learn a nice exemplary story about the taking care of parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">A mother becomes sick very much in the town of Bustam in Iran.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Her son always took care of her.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The mother also loved him very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The mother asked her son for drinking water at one evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">He did not awake his mother anticipating her discomfort due to awakening from sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">He thought, when mother would awake again, he would give her water to drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">He thought, it would be late to give her water if he himself would have fallen into sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Mother would suffer.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">He did not sleep any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">He had been standing for the whole night holding the glass of water in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">He said to his mother, you wanted to drink water at night, I saw no water in the pitcher.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Mother said, why didn't you call me?</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The son said, I did not call you thinking you might be disturbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The son was known as the world's famous saint later on .</sent>
				<sent id ="238">He is the world famous Hazrat Biazeed Bustami (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="239">We shall be always obedient to our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">We shall always respect and honour them.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">We shall always serve them.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">We shall never disobey them.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">We shall pray to Allah for their salvation in the life after death (Akhirat).</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
