<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-islam-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.583</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">393</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4031</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1315</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t35">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Iman is an Arabic word.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Its literal meaning is firm belief.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Allah is One, Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) is Allah's final and the greatest Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Aqaid is the plural form of Aqidah.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">A person's Iman and Aqidah must be clear to become a real Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Iman is the first and pioneer of the five foundations of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">No person can become true Mu'min without having the pure Aqidah.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Allah, the Exalted is our Creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">He is One and Unique.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Only He is the Commanding Authority, Provider of all the amenities of life and the Saviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">He has sent, at intervals, many Messengers and Prophets in different ages to guide those who go astray.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) is the last Messenger of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Allah has revealed the holy Quran for the formation of ideal life of the mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The angels are always ready to carry out the orders of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Our good and bad happen at Allah's wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">One day we all have to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">After death, Allah shall bring us to life again.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">This is our life in the Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">In the field of great congregation that is Hashar, account of our activities will be taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">We would believe in Allah and His Rasul at heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">We shall build up our life in the light of the holy Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">This is how, as believers, we all shall get the nearness of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Allah Ta'ala is the sole Owner of whatever there are before us and whatever we see around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">It is He and who has created all these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">There are so many other things what we cannot see.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">He has created all those things too.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Before us, there are lots of beautiful houses and big buildings.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">There are the buildings of schools, colleges, madrasas and masjids.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">We see many fine metalled roads and beautiful bridges and culverts over the rivers and canals.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">In the rivers there are boats, motor launches, steamers and ferry boats.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">And in the streets there are various types of transports like buses, trucks, jeeps, taxies etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">These all have been manufactured by carpenters, masons, engineers and by a number of skilled labourers.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">In our houses, we have chairs, tables, beds, sofa-sets etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Also there are cloth hangers and glittering wooden or steel wardrobes.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">But it is obvious that these have not been in existence by themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Carpenters make wooden chairs, tables, almiras and different types of furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The engineers, scientists and skilled labourers have manufactured all these electric appliances.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The canals and marshy lands are full of water with abundant fishes of various types and colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">All these are not created automatically.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Allah has created these all.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">He has kept alive all these by rearing them.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">We see the vast blue sky over our head.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">In this sky there are moon, sun, innumerable stars, planets and satellites.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Everyday the sun rises in the east.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The day dawns.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Again at the end of the day the sun sets in the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Then night befalls and the moon rises in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">All these functions of the solar system do not happen automatically.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The Almighty Allah has created these all.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">These were not created automatically.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Allah has created all these.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">No man also can make them.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The Almighty Allah the Great Scientist, and All powerful has created all these.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Allah has many attributive names.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Among these names His one name is Khaliq which means the Creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The holy Quran says: The sky and the earth and what is inbetween these, all are Allah's creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Allah is the most Merciful and the most Kind.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He is our Creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">He rears us by giving sustenance.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">He loves us all.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He has given us life and we die at His Will.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Allah is One and second to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">He has no partner or nobody is equal to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He is ever living and shall live forever.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Those who believe in these fundamental aspects of Iman and Aqida admit this truth and work accordingly, are called Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">We belong to this community.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Those who are Muslims, bear nice and pleasant character and behavior.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">They do not tell lies, hurt none, nor they steal or loot the belongings of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">They do not indulge in any terrorism or hijacking.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">They respect the parents and the teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They follow the right path as directed by the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="72">They pray to Allah alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Allah has created all that we see.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">And there are so many other things which we cannot see, those are also created by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">After creating these things he not only did not leave them unguided.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">He also rears up them with His bounties.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">He has created so many other things, we see around us, such as the animals, beasts, birds and trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">He rears these all providing them with food, water, light and wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">All animals, birds, shrubs and trees live on food, but their food are not alike.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">We are human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">We eat rice, fish, meat etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">We also eat fruits and vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Whereas the birds, beasts and other animals eat green grass and leaves of trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">They also eat small insects and worms.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">On the other hand, the trees, plants and the shrubs cannot eat rice, fish, meat and insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">They do not have mouths, teeth and hands like ours.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">They soak water through their roots under the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">They consume carbon-di-oxide from the air and prepare their food from the sunlight by their leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">All these are their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">We are human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">We all breathe air (inhale and exhale).</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The animals, birds and beasts also breathe air.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">No animal can live without breathing air.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">A kind of poisonous air comes out from our body when we exhale.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">This air is called carbon-di- oxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">No living being can survive without oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">So, it is proved that man and animals are interdependent for their survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">They help each other to sustain their lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">What a great mercy of Allah is towards this creation!</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Carbon- di-oxide acts as poison for our body but it is food for the trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Again, we for our survival breathe in the oxygen what the trees breathe out.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">We get fruits, vegetables etc. through the trees and plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">This way Allah rears us.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Allah, the Exalted, rears up various kinds of animals, beasts and insects by providing various types of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Allah provides their food by creating soft grass and many other things underneath the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">They live on these.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">We know, that the other name of water is life.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">No living being can survive without water.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The trees, plants and the shrubs also cannot remain alive without water.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Everyday we need sufficient quantity of water to remain alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Everyday, a lot of water of the rivers, canals, seas and oceans evaporate by the heat of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">This vapour floats in the open space of the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Then it gradually becomes condensed and turns into clouds.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">These clouds become heavy and ultimately come down in the form of rains.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In this way water turns in to vapour and then again into water in a cyclic order.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">This order is called water cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">We pump out water from the soil underneath by using tube-well.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">This water does not mix with the dirt and dust of the soil of surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">This water is stored at the bottom of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">So, this water is free from germs and it is fresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Our health remains good when we drink this fresh water.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">In some places arsenic is found in water of the tube-wells.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">So, water of these tube-wells where harmful arsenic is found should not be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">We also use water of the rivers, canals and ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We should be careful about water remaining pure and fresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Water should not be wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">We shall use water up to the limit of our necessity.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Allah does not like the wasteful people.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Water is the gift of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">His kindness is boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Do you yourselves bring this water from the cloud or I cause it?</sent>
				<sent id ="132">We have to do various types of work to lead our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">We need strength for doing any job.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Where from do we get this strength?</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Yes, we get this from water and heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">We get strength from many other sources too.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The basic source of strength is the sun, the creation of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Without the heat and light of the sun nothing survives and no living being can get strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Let us try to know this fact by doing an experiment in our house.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Let us keep a plant covered under a pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">After few days we shall find on uncovering the pot that the plant has been whitish and weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">This has happened for the plant's not getting light.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">One day the plant will die if we continue to keep the plant covered for a longer time.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Man, animals, birds, trees, green creepers etc. cannot live without sun-light.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Allah rears all these by the sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Light, air, soil, water all these are the gifts of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">He provides food for each and every animal according to the need.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">He is the Giver of life to all the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">All of us are alive by His grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">He is the Rearer of the vast world.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He has created all these for the benefit and welfare of man, the best of His creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">He has made the whole creation bounded for the service of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">We would enjoy all these bounties of Allah according to His decree and command.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">We pay gratitude to Allah, saying Alhamdu Lillahi Rabbil, Alameen.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Meaning: All praises are due to Allah, the Lord of the Universe Allah is the Owner of all good qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He is All Merciful, All Compassionate.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">He is the Creator of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">He is the Rearer of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">He sees and hears everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">He is the Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">All these names taken together are called the attributive names of Allah or Al-Asmawul Husna.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Al-Asma means the names, Al-Husna means the Beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">All these are called Allah's attributive names.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Allah has mentioned His many attributive names in the holy Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We pray to Allah mentioning His many attributive names.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Allah, the Great, is the source of all good qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">At all times in the day and night and in all conditions we would remember Allah's many attributive names.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Allah sees the acts and activities of each and every person.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He hears everything and knows all that a person thinks.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Such a person refrains himself from committing theft and telling lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Let us properly know Allah's qualities And try to possess those qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Allahu Gafurun means Allah is the Forgiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Forgiving and pardoning are the most elevated qualities of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Even, being instigated by the cursed Satan and being tempted by evil passion he does some wrongful and sinful acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Allah will forgive all his offences and faults done hitherto.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The Shahi Bukhari quotes a Hadith : A person was indifferent about obeying Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">After his death Allah asked him, why he willed so.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Allah said: It means, you believed Me in heart and feared Me too.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">I have forgiven you.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">This way Allah will forgive innumerable sinners out of his forgiving quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">We shall forgive others.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Then Allah would also forgive us.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Innallaha Gafurur Rahim Meaning : Verily Allah is the Forgiver, the Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">This means Allah is ever Forbearing, Tolerant.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Man often does many wrongs being tempted by the ill desire of the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Being instigated by Satan and evil passion he violates Allah's orders and does many vices.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">But Allah does not punish him immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">He gives him ample times for rectifying and repentance, gives him chance to become good.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He gives him opportunities of penitence (promise not to do such wrong again).</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Allah is very Tolerant.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Had it been not so, He would not have given us any chance to repent and rectify.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Rather if He would have punished then and there, we would have got no way out to escape.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Allah Himself is so Forbearing, He likes forbearance and tolerance from His servents.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Forbearance is an elevated quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Mutual love, friendship and sympathy grow by this great quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Let us resolve to possess this in our selves and cultivate it among our schoolmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">We should not become angry with our fellow beings for any small fault and faltering.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">We would keep our patience if any body becomes angry, nor would we say anything instantly in reply.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">There is every possibility of heightening the quarrel if, then and there some retaliating step is taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Because the normal condition changes to abnormal when somebody comes to high temper.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Allah also does not take action instantly at somebody's Wallahu Aleemun Haleem Meaning: Allah is the All-Knowing, the Forbearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Allah Is The Forbearing fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">It is quite natural that man sometimes does wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Later he asks for forgiveness when he realizes his mistake and then Allah forgives him.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">We shall also be patient, try to make him or her understand about the fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Then Insha-Allah peace will prevail.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">We will also keep patience when some of our family members do some mistake or fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">We would not become instantly angry if any person of our locality does some wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">There we would keep patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">We Shall advise our younger brothers and sisters, classmates and friends to be tolerant.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Allahu Samee'un Means Allah is the all-Hearer.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Of course we would believe that Allah hears everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">He hears what we say openly and also He hears what we say secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">He knows all that we utter in our minds.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Nothing remains concealed to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The Glorious Quran Says: We do believe Allah hears all that we say.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Never we shall tell lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">We shall not backbite about anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Meaning : verily Allah is the all-herer and the all-wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Allah is so alert that He instantly hears any evil decision taken against anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Definitely He would give us punishment on that day, when nobody will be able to save us from His punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">We will not vilify anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">No bad language we will use.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Rather we would advise our younger brothers and sisters to respect the promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Allahu Baseer'un means Allah is the All-Seer.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Allah always sees everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Allah sees all that we do openly.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">He sees all that we do secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">He sees all the minerals underneath the soil and knows their whereabouts.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">He also sees what we do silently in the darkness of nights of the moonless sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Nothing is hidden to Him. refrain from doing what He forbade.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">There are many people in the society who conspire in secret to harm others.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">They think nobody is seeing them or knowing about them.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">But this thinking is totally wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Allah is seeing everything and He is hearing all sounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Nothing is out of His knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Allah's one great order is, fasting during the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Because Allah is everywhere and All-Seer.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Nothing remains concealed from His notice.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">We believe that Allah sees everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">So we shall not do any wrong, neither be involved in any unbecoming activity, We shall not steal anybody's materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">We shall remain far away from enmity and terrorism and we shall not be addicted to smoking or any intoxicant.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Allahu Qadeerun means : Allah is the Omnipotent.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">He is the sole Owner of all the things of this vast universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Allah is the All-powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">He is the Giver of life to all animals, birds and all living beings in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">And also He is the Giver of death to all of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">By His order the sun rises in the east daily in time.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">After sunset the night starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">We shall totally surrender ourselves to Allah and say sincerely : O, Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="251">You are the Owner of all power.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">You bestow honour to whomever You want and indignity hatred and dishonour to whomsoever You like.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">And You give abundent provisions of life to whomsoever You wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Allah has created man.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">And He has created all creations of the skies and earth for the service and benefit of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">He is rearing everything of the creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Actually He only knows wherein lies man's benefit and welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">It is known to Him which path men should follow for getting happiness and peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">It is also known to Him how they will lead their life to be safe from miseries and troubles.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Which path will enable them to face the worries and mental agonies it is also known to Him alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Allah is All-wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Only He is aware of the past, present and future of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Prophets and messengers are Allah's beloved people.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Allah selected His messengers from among their respective contemporary people and sent the spiritual revelations to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Revelations or Ohi means Allahs message.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Allah has used to sent His revelations to His Prophets and messengers through the angel Jibraeel (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="267">He has sent His revealed books to His messengers.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Prophets and messengers are very dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">They are infallible (free from crimes and sins).</sent>
				<sent id ="270">They always remained away from sinful acts and deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">They are the ideal people for human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Their acts, behaviours, characters all were of highest qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">They would always obey Allah and call men to the path approved by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Even many of them became martyrs at the hand of unbelievers while preventing people from doing improper acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Still they continued to call the people to the right path and never stopped from their mission.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">The aims of the teaching of the Prophets and messengers are as follows.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Tawhid or (Onenes of Allah) : Allah is One.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Nobody is equal to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Risalat and Nabuat : Through the Prophets and Messengers messages of Allah had reached mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Deen : Deen, the way of life given by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Akhlaq : Decent character.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Akhirat : life after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">The messengers and Prophets taught all people of different region the above mentioned lessons.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Many Prophets were sent to the world from Adam (A) to the great Prophet Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="286">They invited mankind to believe in the Oneness of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">They called them to obey Allah's rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">They were the ideal men.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Those responded to their calls became Allah's beloved men.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">They got Allah's mercy and blessings.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">And those, who did not respond to them, rather opposed them and disobeyed them, became cursed and losers.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">They will not get salvation in the life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm), our beloved Prophet, is the greatest and the last Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">No other Prophet has come any more after him hitherto nor any other Prophet will come till the last day.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Regarding the great Prophet (Sm) Allah said in the Quran : Khatamun nabiyin.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">We see men, animals, beasts and birds everything beside us to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Trees and the creepers also die at certain intervals.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Insects and worms die too after a certain period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Nobody and nothing remains alive forever.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Whatever has got birth in this world has death too.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Everyone will die.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">After death we bathe them and clothe them with funeral cloths.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">After Janaza (or funeral prayer) we bury them.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">This death brings their lives to an end to their lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Their life hereafter starts after this death.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">The life hereafter is the eternal life, which has no end.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">This hereafter life is endless.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">We could know something about that life of Akhirat through the messengers of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">All of the Prophets from Adam (As) to Muhammad (Sm), the last Prophet, have said about the life of Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Meaning : Every living being has to take the taste of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">The Prophets and the messengers of Allah proclaimed:</sent>
				<sent id ="312">They will get the salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Jannat is the place of happiness and peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">There is no misery, woe and worry in that life.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Jahannam is the place of doom.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">It is a place of great agony and grief, therein is misery and misery.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Some stages and some inportant things about the life of Akhirat are as follows.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">We will now discuss about some of the important stages and matters of Akhirat or the life after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Suwal-Jawab means-questions and answers.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Every one of us Question and answer in the grave Hashar, the great congregation.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Punishment or comfort in the grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Meezan, the balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Qiamat, the Day of judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Jannat or Jahannam (heaven or hell).</sent>
				<sent id ="325">will have to face this stage of questions and answers.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">After death two angels named Munkar and Nakir will make every dead body alive by the wish of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Then they ask every newly alive person the following three questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">First Question : Mar-rabbuka?</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Meaning : Who is your Lord, the Rearer and Master?</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Second question : ma deenuka?</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Meaning : What is your way of life?</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Third question : Showing the image of the Prophet (Sm) this question will be asked Man hazar-rajulu?</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Meaning : Who is this person?</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Meaning : Allah is my Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Answer to the second questions is : Deenee al Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Meaning : My way of life as approved by Allah is Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">They would be successful.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">They would get salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">They would cry aloud and say: alas!</sent>
				<sent id ="340">I know nothing about all these.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">The grave would be a place of comfort and peace for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Allah would make a passage between Jannat and their graves to have close contact with the bliss of Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">They would feel the peace of Jannat there.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">The grave would be a place of great and severe punishment for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Their graves would be connected with the Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">They would feel the hell-punishment there.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">We all always would follow the instructions of Allah and those of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="348">We would never follow the path of Saitan.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">We would not be sinners or guilty person committing sin or doing bad deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Then we may expect that Allah would save us from punishment in grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">So, nothing can remain hidden.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">A group of angels keep record in writing.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">This record book is called amal nama.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Meezan is an Arabic word.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">It means measuring balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">And whose balance will become heavy with vices and sins, would go to Jahannam (hell).</sent>
				<sent id ="357">They would be dwellers of Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">We will not walk on the footsteps of shaitan.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">He sent many Prophets and Messengers for the guidance of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The Prophets showed them the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">This is called Qiamat.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Hazrat Israfeel as, the angel in-charge of blowing the bugle, will blow on it, by Allah's order.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Everything would start to flying like scattered cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">At last, this earth and the vast universe will be destroyed and would turn to be one great levelled field.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">The scientists, admit the termination of the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">This way they admit and say that such a time will come when the sun will become heatless and cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">The moon will lose its light.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">There will be collision among the planets and satellites.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Ultimately everything including the earth will be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">On that day all mankind will be present before Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">That day of last judgement is called Yaumul Hashr, the day of congregation.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Yaum means day and Hashr means gathering.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">So, Yaumul Hashr means Day of gathering.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">All people who are born hitherto and who would be born would gather there.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">All would be gathered on that ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">All would be present before Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">They would live there and safe.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Their sorrows will have no bounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">We shall believe in Yaumul Hashr the day of great gathering.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Jannat or the heaven is the abode of eternal peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">There will be all arrangements for their peace and comfort.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Delicious foods, fragrant sweet drinks and beautiful gardens would be provided there.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">There will be nice palaces beside which will be the prattling brooks.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">The dwellers of Jannat will get instantly whatever they desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">On the other hand Jahannam is the place of eternal sorrow and trouble.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">There will be various types of punishment in the Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Therein they will suffer forever.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Jahannam is the place of all sorrow and grief.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Therein they will suffer severe punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">We shall obey command of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">We shall perform rituals.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">We shall refrain from all kinds of sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Thus we may expect Jannat in life hereafter.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
