<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-islam-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.626</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">576</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5922</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1588</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t36">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Ibadat is an Arabic word.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Ibadat means to abide by the orders of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">To obey the orders of Allah and not to do the things prohibited by Allah is called Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Our duty is to carry out His order and to worship him.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Human beings are his servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Allah is the only one to be worshipped by men.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">As the servants of Allah, whatever they do for gaining His satisfaction is called Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">When we talk to each other, we shall not tell lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">We shall not speak ill of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Allah has instructed us not to tell lies and not to speak ill of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">We shall always speak the truth and right.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Allah has ordered us to speak the truth and right.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">We deal in money with people.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">We buy and sell goods in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">We live with our parents and brothers and sisters at our home.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Even our eating, movements, sleeping, awakening, and conversation all these things are included in Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The aim of Islam is to prepare human beings as the servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">who are accustomed to Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">With this in view some Ibadats have been made compulsory.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">These are -Iman (Belief), Salat (Prayer) Saom (Fasting), Zakat (Charity) and Hajj (Pilgrimage).</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Besides these there are many Wajib, Sunnat and Nafal Ibadats.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">If we worship, Allah becomes satisfied with His servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">But if we do not worship He is dissatisfied with his servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He will punish him with severely.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">So, for our own happiness and peace, we should worship Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Hazrat Muhammad (sm) is the last Prophet (sm) of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Allah has revealed the Holy Quran to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Allah has described clearly in the Holy Quran the things He is satisfied with and the things He is dissatisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">According to the Holy Quran's instructions Hazrat Muhammad (sm) has shown us the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Islam is based on five Rukons.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Rukon means pillar They are : The place of Salat is next to Iman and second pillar of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Salat is an Arabic word.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Salat is called Namaz in Persian language.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Salat is the greatest Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The importance and fazilat of Salat are of the most significance.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The greatest Ibadat is Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">After getting up from sleep at Fazr trime a Muslim first of all becomes purified and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Then he appears before Almighty Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Before Him they bow, and do the sizda, accepting His obedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">They seek help from Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">They pray for His satisfaction again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They plea to Him for the relief from His punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">In this way he begins his day.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">After some hours, comes Zohr, Asar, Magrib and Isha consecutively.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Afterwards we perform Salatul Vitr.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">At the last Rakat of this Salat we pray like this O Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="47">We only worship you, we perform Salat only for you, and we only bow our head to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">All our endeavours, hardships are for your satisfaction only.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Salat reinforeces the foundation of good deeds of Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">It refreshes their Iman (belief).</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The upliftment of soul and the correction of our actions depend on Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">He, who baths five times a day in that river, is it possible to have any filth in his body?</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Sahabies said, no, there cannot be any dirt.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The great Prophet (sm) said: Salat is the most important of all the Ibadats.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">It is (Farz) compulsory for all the Muslims to perform Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Salat can not be given up under any circumstances; Salat has to be performed very attentively.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">It is not proper to look to and fro after starting Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The Great Prophet (sm) sought the help from Allah through Salat if he faced any trouble.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Allah used to remove away his troubles and dangers.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">We shall also seek help to Allah through Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Allah will remove away our danger and difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Meaning: Salat is the key to heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">(Assalatu Miftahul Jannati).</sent>
				<sent id ="64">We shall stand facing the Quibla in neat and clean place.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The rules of binding hands: We shall place the palm of the left hand on the navel.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">We shall spread the ring finger, middle finger and fore finger on the wrist of left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Only the girls will placethe right hand on the left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">After saying the Niyat of salat silently we Shall say Allahu Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We shall raise our two hands, up to the ears at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The girls will raise their hands up to the shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">We shall bind our hands on the naval saying Allahu Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The girls, will bind the hands on the chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Meaning: Oh Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="74">I am describing only your holiness and all the praises are only for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Your name is full of abundance and bounty.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Your honor is at the highest position.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">There is none to be worshipped except you.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Then we shall recite sura Fatiha after saying Auzubillah and Bismillah.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">We shall say Ameen after reciting Sura Fatiha.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It is Faraz to recite a part from the Holy Quran in Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">We shall recite any other Sura or a part of any other sura after saying Bismillah.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Then we shall go to Ruku after saying Allahu Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">We shall say Subhana Rabbial Azeem at least three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Being straight normally we shall bow down our head.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">We shall place two hands on knees so that the head, backside and waist remain in one line.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">We shall keep our elbows in a gap from our rib.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The girls will join together the heel of the left foot with the heel of right foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">We shall bend the head as far as the hands reach upto the knees.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">After the completion of the Ruku, we shall stand straight raising the head uttering Samiallahu Liman Hamidah.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Then we shall say Rabbbana Lakal Hamd at the standing position.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Then we shall go to Sijdah saying Allahu Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">At first we shall place two knees on the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Then we shall place two palms of hands on the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">After that we shall place the nose and the forehead on the floor putting our head between two hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">During the time of sijdah we shall place the fingers of two hands touching together towards Quibla.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">We shall place the toe on the floor of two legs facing Quibla.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">We shall place both of the legs touching each other and the feet will remain straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The girls will not keep the feet straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">We shall keep our head at sufficient distance from the knees at the time of sijadah.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">We shall not attach the upper part of the wrist to the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">We shall keep legs apart from the thigh.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The girls will go to sijda joining the whole body together.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">We shall keep the head as much near the knees as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">We shall keep the leg joined together with the thigh and keep the arm joined with the ribs.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">We shall say Subhana Rabbial Aa'la for three times in sijdah.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">After that we shall sit straight saying Allahu Akbar We shall place two hands on two knees.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Then we shall say Allahummug Firlee Warhamnee Wahdinee Wa Afinee Warzuknee.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">After this we shall go to second sijda saying Allahu Akbar and recite the Tasbih of sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">We shall stand straight saying Allahu Akbar completing sijda, in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Here the first Rakat ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Now the second Rakat starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Then like the first Rakat, we shall sit still after Ruku and Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">In this way the second Rakat ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">We shall keep erect the toe of the right leg facing Quibla.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The girls will sit on the floor letting both of their legs towards right side.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Then we shall spread the plams of the two hands jointly on the thighs.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">We shall recite Attahiyyatu attentively sitting in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Then we shall complete third and fourth Rakat like before.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">We shall be sitted again completing third and fourth Rakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Then we shall recite Darud after reciting Attahiyyatu.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Then we shall recite Dua Masura.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">We shall finish Salat after saying Salam to right and left side.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Meaning: All good wishes and Salutation, and all kind of Prayer and Holiness are for Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">O Prophet (sm) Salutation to you, let the mercy and abundance be on you.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Peace be on us and on the other virtuous servants of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Meaning: O Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Let your blessing come upon Hazrat Muhammad (sm) and his family members as you blessed Ibrahim and his family members.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Certainly you are the most praiseworthy and Glorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">O Allah bless Muhammad (sm) and the family of Muhammad(sm) as you blessed Ibrahim and his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Certainly you are very much Praiseworthy and Glorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Meaning: O Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="132">I have tormented myself much.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">There is none but you to forgive the sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Therefore you forgive all of my sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">And have pity on me! Certainly you are the Great Forgiver and Benevolent.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">We shall say at first Assalamu Alaikum Wa Rahmatullah to right and then to the left after reciting Dua Masura.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Thus the Salat of two Rakats will be completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">We shall recite only Tashhahud after the second Rakat in the Salat of three Rakats.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Then we shall stand straight saying Allahu Akbar for the third Rakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Then we shall recite sura Fatiha only saying Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem without any other sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Then we shall go to sijda like before.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">We shall recite.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Afterwards, we shall stand up saying Allahu Akbar for the third Rakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Then we shall go to Ruku Sijda after reciting only Sura Fatiha, saying Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem like before.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">We shall stand straight for the fourth Rakat, saying Allahu Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">If anybody intends to travel to a place having the distance of 48 miles.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">or about 80 kms then he is called a musafir or a traveller.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">A musafir will say two Rakat Prayer (Salat) during Zohr, Asar and Isha instead of four Rakats.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In case of inconvenience excepting the Sunnats of Fazr, other Sunnat salats can be left out.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">This is permissable and will not cause any transgression of rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Some activities are compulsory (faraz) in Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">These must be performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Salat will not be perfect if any one of these is left out.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">These activities are divided into two sections.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Some of the activities should be done before beginning the salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Some should be done within salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Farz or compulsory activitics that should be done before starting salat, are known as Ahkam of Salat (conditions).</sent>
				<sent id ="158">They are seven in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">If it is necessary to purify the body, we shall take bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">We shall perform wadu (ablution), if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The clothes we wear must be clean, during salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The place where we shall say our prayer must be clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Covering the satr Meaning covering the body from the naval area below the knees for men.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">For women it Means covering the whole body excepting the face, wrist of the hands and the feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Facing the Quibla Means to perform Salat facing the direction of ka'ba Sharif.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Ka'ba sharif is at the west direction from our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">So we shall say our prayer facing west direction.Niyat Meaning making wish or intention for doing some thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The Niyat should be done for each and every salat at the time of Takbir Tahrima.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Each Salat has its fixed time.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Allah has instructed us to perform Salat according to fixed time.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Therefore, we shall perform Salat in proper time.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Farz activities that should be done in the midst of Salat, are known as Arkan of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">They are seven altogether: Starting Salat saying Takbir Tahrima or Allahu Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Saying Prayers in standing position.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Both the male and female should say their prayer in the standing position.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">If some body is unable to sit, then he can say prayers by gestures in the lying prostate position.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Quirat or reciting a part from the Holy Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">To go to Raku.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">To bend for Sizdah To sit on the last sitting position Salat is finished lastly with Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">We shall perform Salat very carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">We should be careful about the Farazes, that none of them is dropped.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Because without performing Faraz, Salat will not be completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">In this circumstance Salat would have to be performed again.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Wajib Meaning bounden duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The place of Wajib is immediate after the Farz.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">There are some Wajibs (bounden duties) within Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Salat will not be performed completely if any one Wajib is dropped out wilfully by somebody.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">1) Recitation of Sura Fatiha.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">2) Recitation of another Sura or a part of the Holy Quran along with Sura Fatiha.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">3) Standing being straight after Ruku.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">4) Sitting straight between two Sijdas.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">5) Reciting Tashhahud after second Rakat within Salat with three or four Rakats.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">6) Reciting Tashahhud at the last sitting of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">And in other Salats silently.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">8) To Recite Dua Kunut in Bitr Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">9) To say additional six Takbirs in Salats of two Eids.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">10) To stay in Ruku and Sijda at least for one Tasbih.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">11) If any Wajib is dropped forgetfully, to go to Sahu Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">12) To finish Salat saying Assalamu Alaikum Wa Rahmatullah.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">13) To maintain the consequisitiveness while of Farz and Wajibs of Salat are performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Salat will be deemed to have been performed by this.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">At the same time he will be learning Sura, kerat, dua, Darud, Tasbih etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Two main reasons of Salat not being performed:</sent>
				<sent id ="204">In that case Salat shall have to be performed again.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">One has to sit straight between two sijdahs.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Then Salat will have to be performed again.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Yawning and coughing in Salat: The lips should be locked as far as possible if Yawning occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">If it is not possible at all then we have to cough very slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">We shall not cough loudly or shall not clear our throat noisily.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">After that Salat is to be performed agin.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Sahu Meaning mistake.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">We have learnt before that Salat is not performed if any one of wajib is dropped wilfally.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">This Salat is to be performed again.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">But if any wajib is dropped by mistake then there is way to make corrections.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">This way is called Sijdah Sahu.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The rule of performing Sijdah Sahu: We will recite Tashhahhud at the last Rakat of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Then we shall go to two Sijdahs after Salam only to right side saying Allahu Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">After that we shall recite again Tashhahhud , Darud and Dua Masura.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Then we shall complete the Salat saying Salam to the right and the left side.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Bitr Meaning Salat with uneven Rakats.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Bitr Salat is consisted of two Rakats.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Three is an odd number.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">So this Salat is called Bitr Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Bitr Salat is wajib.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Everyone must perform this Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The time of Bitr is after the Isha Salat upto the time before the beginning Fazr Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">In the month of Ramadan Bitr Salat is to be performed after Isha and Tarabee Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The Rules of Performing Bitr?</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Like other Salats we shall say Niyat, Takbir Tahrima and Sana n vitr salat also.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">We shall recite sura Fatiha along with another Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">In first and second Rakat we shall stand straight from sitting after two Rakats saying only Tashhahhud.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">We shall recite Sura Fatiha along with another Sura at third Rakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Then we shall raise both of our hands saying Allahu Akbar upto the ears without going to Ruku.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Then we shall bind our hands again.We shall recite Dua Kunut in this position.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">We shall go to Ruku after saying Allahu Akbar after rhe recitation of Dua Kunut.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">We shall sit, doing Sijda after the Ruku.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Then we shall recite Tashahhhud, Darud, Dua Masura.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Then we shall complete Salat saying Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Meaning : Oh Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="240">We seek help from you.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">We pray to you only for forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">We have brought belief on you.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">We depend on you only.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">We praise most you only.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">We express our gratitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">We do not deny your bounties.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">We shun those who behave indecent with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">We worship you only.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">We perform Salat addressing you only.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">And we do Sijdah only to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">All of our endeavours, meditation and hardships are only for your satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">We suffer hardships only in the hope of gaining your mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">We are afraid of your severe punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Certainly, only idolaters will be thrown in to severe punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The Salat performed as a prayer (Dua) for the dead person, is called Salatul Janaza or Salat of Janaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The Salat of Janaza is Farz-e-kefaia.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">When somebody dies, the living persons have so many duties to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">There is no Ruku-Sijdah in Salat of Janaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">It is performed standing in congregation saying Allahu Akbarfor four times.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The Muktadirs will stand in rows at the behind of the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Afterwards we shall raise our two hands upto the ears saying Allahu Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Then we shall bind our hands on naval area in Salat like Tahrima.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Immediately after saying Sana we shall say Allahu Akbar for second time and recite Darud with the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Oh Allah Keep us upon Islam whom you keep alive, and whom you give death, give it with believe (Iman).</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Then we shall say Salam to the right and left side with hand binding position.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Then we shall complete the Janaza Salat making hands free.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">As the bath of the dead person is Farz-e-kefaia, similarly burial is also Farz-e-kefaia.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Immediately after the Salat of Janaza is finished the dead body will be taken to grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The meaning of the word Masjid is the place for Sijdah.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">The place where the Muslims perform their Salat for five times with congregation is called Mosque.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Salat can be performed at home or at any other places.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">But twenty seven times more rewards can be gained if Salat is performed in congregation at the Mosque.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Mosque is the most favourite place to Allah on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Mosque is the house of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Those who perform Salat at the Mosque, are guests of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Allah loves them very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">They are very much dear to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">People are invited for Salat through Azan.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Azan is announced for five times from the Mosque for performing Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">So we shall go to the Mosque, whenever we listen to the Azan and we shall perform Salat with congregation.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">We can meet our neighbours five times a day if we perform Salat at the Mosque.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">In this way friendship is built up with each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">If anybody falls in difficulty, others get informed.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">They can help him.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">So, we shall perform Salat at Mosque.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">There are innumerable mosques in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The number of the mosques in Bangladesh is more than two lacs.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The three most dignified mosques are, Mashjid -e-Haram (the ka'ba), Masjid-e-Nababi and Masjid -ul- Aksa.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Entering the Mosque neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Saying the prayer mentioned below at the time of entering the mosque.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Allahummuf Tahlee Abwaba Rahmatika.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Meaning: Oh Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Open your door of bounties for me.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">To sit in a vacant place, entering the mosque without giving The holy Ka'ba trouble to any body.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">To sit in front place if it is vacant.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Not uttering any unnecessary words inside the Mosque.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Not to go to the front crossing other people Not to make a noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Speaking in a low voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Not to make any movement in front of a Musalli who is performing Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The mosque is built mainly for performing Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">But the mosque can be used as the school for the basic religious education.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">The meeting sitting for religious discussions can be held up here.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">The great Prophet (sm) and his Khalifas administered the state sitting at the mosque.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Our dear Prophet (sm) and his companions performed Salat facing the Masjidul Aksa.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">So, Masjidul Aksa is called the first Quibla.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Masjidul Aksa is situated in Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">We have learnt about the etiqetts of the mosque in this lesson.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Eid means joy or festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">The great Prophet (sm) said , each nation has their own festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Our festival is Eid.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">There are two Eids in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">They are Eid-ul-Fitr and Eid-ul-Azha.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">These two are our national festivals.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">We have learnt previously that Eid means joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">And Fitr means to break, to discontince.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Therefore Eid-ul-Fitr means the joy for breaking the Roza (fasting).</sent>
				<sent id ="317">What can be of more pleasure than this?</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Our joy knows no bound on the day of Eid-ul-Fitr.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">We take good food and drinks in a happy mood.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">We entertain relatives and neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">We offer fitra to the poor, so they do not have any want also.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">In this way the rich and the poor can share the joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">It is wajib to do two things on the Eid day.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">One is giving fitra and the other is performing the Salat of Eid.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">The Salat of Eid is of two Rakats.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">We shall give fitra according to the rules and perform the Salat of Eid timely.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">There are some Sunnats on Eid day Such as: To have bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">To eat something on the day of Eid-ul-Fitr before the Salat of Eid.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">And to eat after the Salat of Eid and the Qurbani on the day of Eid-ul-Azha.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">To give away fitra before the Salat of Eid-ul-Fitr.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">To perform the Salat of Eid at Eidgah.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">To say Takbir during the time of goin to Eidgah.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">We will certainly perform these Sunnats.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">The rules of the Salats of Eid-ul-Fitr and Eid-ul-Azha are the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">At first we shell stand behind the Imam, in rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Then we shall have Niyyat saying this.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">After having the Niyyat we shall say Allahu Akbar and raise both of our hands upto the ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Then we shall recite Sana after binding Tahrima.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Immediately after reciting the sana we shall say additional Takbirs thrice with the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">We shall raise our hands upto the ears thrice.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">We shall bind our hands after saying Takbir for the third time.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Then the Imam will recite sura Fatiha and any other Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">We shall go to Ruku and Sijda with the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">We shall stand up erect after that.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">The Imam will recite Sura Fatiha and any other sura at the second Rakat also.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Then we shall also say with the Imam additional Takbir for three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">We shall make our hands free for the three times after raising hands upto the ears not binding them.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">For the fourth time we shall go to Ruku saying Takbir with the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">After that we shall recite Tashahhud, Darud and Dua Musura being sitted after Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Then we shall complete Salat saying Salam with the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">The Imam will deliver khutba after the completion of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">We shall listen to the khutba.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Then we all shall have Munajat with the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Eid means joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">And Azha means sacrifice (Qurbani).</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Eid-ul Azha means the joy of sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">The great Prophet (Sm) said- He who will sacrifice happily, will get rid of the fire of the hell (Jahannam).</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Further he said You will get a reward in exchange of each hair of the animals of Qurbani.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">So, we shall sacrifice with pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">It is the best thing to divide the meat of Qurbani into three portions.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">We keep one portion for ourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">We give one portion to our relatives and neighbours, another portion to the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">So we, the rich and the poor share this joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Eid-ul Azha is celebrated commences on the tenth dayof the month of Zilhajj.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">It has two wajibs.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">To perform the Salat and to sacrifice the animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">There is no difference.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">The sunnats of Eid-ul Azha are the same as the sunnats of Eid-ul- Fitr also.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">There is only one difference.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">It is Sunnat to eat something on the day of Eid-ul-Fitr before the Salat of Eid.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">And it is sunnat to eat something after the Salat and sacrifice on the day of Eid-ul- Azha.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">The second wajib of Eid-ul-Azha is the Sacrifice (Qurbani).</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Hazrat Ibrahim informed this to his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">He accepted the desire of Allah .</sent>
				<sent id ="375">When Hazrat Ibrahim (A) was prepared to sacrifice his son, then Allah said, Oh Ibrahim !</sent>
				<sent id ="376">You have trully obeyed the divine command received in dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Certainly it was a clear test!</sent>
				<sent id ="378">You have passed out at that successfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">(Sura Assaffat 105-107).</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Being pleased the most Gracious.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Allah made the arrangements for sacrificing an animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">From that time the system of sacrificing animals has begun.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">So, we also sacrifice every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Healthy and good looking animals are to be sacrificed.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Children are the dearest ones to the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">The parents have so many duties/responsibilities to children.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">The dangers of the child are removed away through performing Akika.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">But there is no harm if Akika can not be performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Akika can be performed by the similar animals which are appropriate for Qurbani.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">It is better to perform Akika on the seventh day of the birth of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">It can be peformed in any other time, afterwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">The hair of the child's head should be shaved on the day of Akika.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">It is good to give away silver of the equivalent weight of the shaved hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Everybody can eat the meat of Akika.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">One portion is to be distributed among the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Saom is one of the five Rukons of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">To abstain form eating and drinking and some other activities from the dawn to dusk, is called Saom.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Saom is called Roja in Persian language.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Saom is one prominent pillar of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">At the time of Sehri they take food and drinks.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">As soon as it is Subhe Sadik, they stop taking food and drinks.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">Then they don't take anything till sunset, even though delicious food appears before them and they feel hungry and thirsty.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Even they don't take a single drop of water, where there is nobody to witness.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">As soon as Azan for magrib prayer is announced only then they take Ifter.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Deep belief and faith are expressed towards Allah Ta'ala.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Deep obedience is expressed towards the great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="407">The satisfaction of Allah is gained.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">The sympathy and compassion to others are created.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Restraint, sacrifice, generosity, brotherhood and kindness, along with other qualities are developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Physical and mental tranquility are gained.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Social bondage is formed as of sympathy for others, compassion and well-being is increased through fasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Abstaining from unjust and indecent activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">The intention to help the poor and the beggars is created among the rich.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Allah has revealed the holy Quran in the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">So this month is a very sacred month.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Allah has made Roza (fasting) compulsory for this one month, once a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">The Takwa is created through Roza.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Takwa meams carefulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">He who maintains carefulness in the fear of Allah, can not commit any sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The pain of hunger is realized if someone fasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">The teaching to help the destitutes can be obtained from Roza.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Discipline in the matter of eating and drinking is created through fasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">The stomach can work properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Many kinds diseases are cured and health remains sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">I have made Niyat for the farz Roza of tomorrow in the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">You, kindly grant my Roza.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Meaning: O Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="428">I have fasted for you only and I am having Iftar with the food given by you.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">The Salat of Tarabee should be performed after the Salat of Isha, in the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">The Salat of Tarabee is of twenty Rakats.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">This salat is Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">We shall fast in the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">We shall perform the Salat of Tarabi regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">As Allah Has made Salat-Saom compulsory for us, Zakat is also compulsory for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Zakat is a significant Rukon or pillar of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">The mentality of sacrifice is created among the Muslims through Zakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">The miserliness and the hankering after the riches are removed away.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Allah has created human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">He has also bestowed men with various kinds of wealth for leading their life.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">But all the men of the world are not the possessor of the equal wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Somebody's wealth is much more than somebody else's less wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">The rich has no want.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">And the poor has no end of want.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Allah has instructed us to pay Zakat to remove away the want of the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Allah has determined a portion from the wealth of the rich for the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">The rich will pay off the due portion to the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">This is the right of the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Among the five rukons the position of Zakat is next to Iman and Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">The meaning of Zakat is purity and advancement.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Allah provides prosperity if Zakat is paid off.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">As a result their wealth increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">The poor can do business and trade and can make use of this if they get Zakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">In this way the wealth of the society increases also.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">Nesab means a fixed amount.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">th of the Nesab amount of or the wealth is to be given away as Zakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">In such calculation Tk. 2.50 is to be given against Tk. each 100/- and Tk.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">25/- against each Tk.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Zakat is to be given for crops and domestic animals also.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">The rate of these things is of another type.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">We shall learn that later on.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Zakat can not be given to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Zakat can be given to eight categories of people only.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Who are entitled to get Zakat, are called Mashraf of Zakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Mashraf means the heads of expenditure.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">Mashraf of Zakat are eight in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">The poor ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">The persons who are dedicated to serve Islam The employees appointed for collecting Zakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Allah becomes pleased, if Zakat is paid off.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">The wealth becomes purified and increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">The distinction between the rich and the poor is removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Peace is established in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">If Zakat is not paid, then Allah becomes displeased.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">The difference between the rich and the poor prevails, disorder is created in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">There is also severe punishment in the life after death (Akhirat).</sent>
				<sent id ="475">We shall pay Zakat as per calculation.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">We shall serve the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">We shall get rid of severe punishment in the life after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">Hajj is the fifth Rukon (pillar) of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">Hajj means to desire or to wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">Ka'ba is the House of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">It is the Quibla of the Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">All Muslims of the world perform their Salat facing the ka'ba.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">We also do that.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">allowed.Hair would not be cut.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">No ornaments are to be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">One has to keep oneself away from all type of enjoyments.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">One has to consider one self as dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">Hajj is Farz only once in a life.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">Meaning: Hajj is a bounden duty for those who have the ability of making journey to perform Hajj for Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">The main steps in Hajj: wearing Ihram.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">Moving around Ka'ba (Tawaf).</sent>
				<sent id ="492">To run between the hills-Safa and Marwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">To stay at the field of Arafat.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">To spend night at Muzdalifa.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">To perform Qurbani at Meena.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">If any of these is dropped, Hajj is not performed fully.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">Ihram is - to wear cloths without stich.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">No coloured dress or perfume are recited with Ihram again and again while in lhram.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">One has to perform the Tawaf (moving around the holy ka'ba) immediately after reaching Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">The black stone would be kissed each time at the beginning and at the end of Tawaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">Two Rakat Salat should be performed at the place named Makam-e- Ibrahim.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">One has to run between Safa and Marwa (saee) after coming out from here.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">After that one has to stay at tents for five or six days.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">Then the stones should be thrown returning to Mina after one night staying at tent.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">Then the sacrifice (Qurbani) should be done here.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">To run between the hills safa-Marwa (saee) at the time other than Hajj is called Omra.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">Omra is also worth of rewards.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">The Hajj is an august gathering of the Muslims of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">During Hajj innumerable Muslims from all of the countries of the world are gathered together.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">This is an excellent assembly.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">No body is concerned about the language, the complexion of the body and the race of the people around them.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">All of them are of the same dress, same aim and same identity.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">Every body is the servant of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">Everybody is a brother to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">All of them stay for some days unitedly in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">The people of one country makes inquiries about other countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">As a result the brotherhood and love is built up between the Muslims of the whole world.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">The same utterance in is every body's voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">Labbaek Allahumma Labbaek.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">We are present O Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="521">We are present at your court.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">The sins of the past life are forgiven through Hajj.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">The Prophet (Sm) said: The person who performs the Hajj becomes as innocent as a new born baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">There are many places and evidences here connected attached to the memories of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="525">All power is of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">He is the Master of everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">We shall seek his help in all of our works.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">We shall pray to Him only.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">We shall start all the good deeds with His name.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">The Prophet (sm) said duas before doing anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">We shall also say the duas before starting our works.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">Some of the duas are mentioned below.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">Allah is ever Holy.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">So Allah likes the persons who are neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">The Prophet (Sm) said.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">Cleanliness is a part of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">So we shall be neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Then Allah and Rasul (Sm) will love us.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">Bad smell comes out from body of those who are not neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">They are attacked by different diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">Nobody loves the unclean dirty persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">Every body hates them.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">We perform different works all day long.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">The clothes become dirty at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">The body sweats and smells bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">The body becomes dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">So every body should take bath regularly and each part of the body should be cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">The body should be cleaned with soap very carefully regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">The hair should be cut short if it grows long.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">We see every thing with our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">So it is very important to keep the eyes clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">It is seen that there is dirt in the eyes after awakening from sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">So we shall make our eyes and mouth clean after awakening from sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">We shall clean our nose regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">If not, the germs of the diseases collected within nose will pass into the body with breathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">As a result we shall be attacked by various diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">Food is taken by chewing with teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">The food particles remain sticked in the gaps of the teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">Pus and blood oozing and various dental discases will occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">brushing teeth) is the sunnat of our dear Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="561">We do all the works and take food with our hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">We must wash and clean hands before taking food very carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">The feet become dirty for the movement on the roads.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">So the feet should be cleaned after finishing the works.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">It is not enough to keep clean oneself but the environment should be kept clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">We shall keep clean all of our houses, compounds and furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">We shall decorate our reading table beautifully.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">The places around the house should be cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">The classrooms of the school should be kept clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Everybody loves the person who keeps himself clean and keeps the environment clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">The Prophet (Sm) loved to be neat and has instructed every one to be neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">It is an Ibadat (worship) to be neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">We shall keep clean ourselves and the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">We shall remove away if any object which can cause pain lies on road.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">Then Allah will love us.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">People will love us also.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
