<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-islam-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:56.725</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">441</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4791</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1560</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t40">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Allah, the Merciful has created man on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Man is the Ashraful Makhluqat or the best of all creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Allah has created man on earth as His representative with much affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He wants man to live on earth in the way of truth and beauty, to live peacefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">But how would they live on earth in peace?</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Which path would they tread on?</sent>
				<sent id ="7">What work would they do?</sent>
				<sent id ="8">To inform man all about these Allah has sent on earth many great men.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">They are the Prophet and Messengers of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They are our teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">They taught us that Allah is One and second to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">They taught men the rule off formal performances (by which we can show and prove our obedience to Him).</sent>
				<sent id ="14">They also taught the way of leading life on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">In the holy Quran, the names of 25 prophets have been mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">We shall come know the life sketches of some of them in this chapter.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Hazrat Adam (As) is the first man and first prophet on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Allah said to the angels: I want to create khaleefa (representative) in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The angels said: Oh Lord!</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Will you create somebody on earth who would create chaos and shed blood?</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Whereas it is we who are always glorifying your Holiness and Greatness?</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Allah said : I know what you know not.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Allah created Adam (As) with a noble goal.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">And the goal is Allah created Adam (As) with a noble goal.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Then He inserted soul (rooh) in it and named him Adam (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Allah bestowed upon Adam (As) much wisdom and knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">He bestowed him the highest position among all the living creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Allah showed the angels many things and then asked them the names of these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The angels could not say.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Then He asked Adam (As) about them.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Then Adam (As) told the names of all those things immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Then Allah said to the angels : Adam is superior to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">So, you all prostrate before him as a mark of respect .</sent>
				<sent id ="34">All of them bowed down head in his honour, except Iblees.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He did not prostrate Adam (As) and did not show respect to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Allah does not like any boastful person; He became displeased with Iblees and ousted him from heaven (Jannat).</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Then Iblees turned to be cursed Saitan.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Allah placed Adam (As) in the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">He arranged for him all sorts of food and drinks, fruits and all sorts of comfort.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">But Adam (As) was alone in the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">He was not feeling well.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">So, Allah created Hawa (As) to remove his loneliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Hazrat Hawa (As) became the first woman on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Then Allah said, You live in heaven, eat and drink whatever you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">But be ware of this tree, do not go near this tree or you will suffer a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Hazrat Adam (As) and Hazrat Hawa (As) went on living in heaven happily obeying the orders of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">They went to that forbidden tree and ate fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Allah was displeased with them for disobeying Allah's order.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">He expelled them from the heaven to the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Realizing the mistake done by them Hazrat Adam (As) and Hazrat Hawa (As), both repented a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">They prayed to Allah for forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">At last Allah forgave them, accepted their penitence.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">He will always make plan to harm you; he will throw you into danger and deceive you.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">So, be ware of his deception and conspiracy.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">I will send all my rules and regulations to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">You must obey those instructions.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Thus you would be able to live again in heaven peacefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">After that Adam (As) and Hawa (As) started their new life on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">They gave birth to a host of descendants.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The earth started to be full with mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Thus started the journey of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Hazrat Adam (As) taught his children the Islamic way of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">He told them: Allah is the Creator of the whole universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He is One and Second to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">You will worship Him only .</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Seek only His help in all affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Bow down your head only to Him .</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Thus you will get peace in the life here and in reward you will get Jannat in the hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Now, let us make a list of the teachings of Adam (As) that he had given to his children.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">On the other hand, being deceived by the devil, men forgot the instructions of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Gradually they got involved in all kinds of vices and misdeeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">They went on creating disturbance and chaos on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Not only that, they started worshipping many other objects of creations forgetting to worship Allah alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Some started worshipping various idols.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Some started to worshipping sun, moon and stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Some started worshipping, trees, rivers, hills, mountains, animals, and beasts of various kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">And some became involved to satisfy their own inclination.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Nooh (As) was one of such of prophets sent by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">He went on inviting people to the way of Allah (deen) for long nine hundred and fifty years continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">He said: Believe in Allah and fear Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Give up worshipping idols and worship Him only.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Do the good and refrain form doing the evil?</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Seek bounty and blessings of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Believe in the life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">During this long time only forty men and forty women accepted the faith in Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">And they returned back to the way of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The rest of the people did not pay any importance to his preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">They remained unbelievers.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">They continued to laugh at him, jest him.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">They continue to give him troubles in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">You destroy them.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Allah lets Nooh (As) to know that within a short period Allah's doom will befall upon them.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Soon there would be devastating cyclone and great flood.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Allah advised Nooh (As) to keep ready a ship to escape His punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">He explained to his people, that the punishment of Allah is coming for not obeying him.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Despite such warning people did not come to the right way.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Rather they began laughing at him and jesting to Nooh (As) all the more.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">One day truly the sign of flood appeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Water started to gush out from the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Violent rain and storm started.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Nooh (A) took on board the ship all the believers and all kinds of animals in pairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">He said to the believers, Get into the boat in the name of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It will go on and stop with name of Allah(As).</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Before the ship started he recited: Bismillahi majreha wa mursaha, inna Rabbi Lagafurur Rahim.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Meaning : It will move on with name of Allah and it also will stop with the name of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">My Lord is the Forgiving and the Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The incessant rain continued for forty days.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Water also kept on coming out of the ground with great speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The earth went under floodwater.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">All the disbelievers perished drowning.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Hazrat Nooh (As) had one son, named kena'n.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He also died drowning for disobeying the biddings of Allah and the prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Hazrat Nooh (As) prayed to Allah to stop the flood.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">After forty days the flood stopped and the water started receding.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The ship of Hazrat Nooh (As) stopped on the mountain Judi.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">After the flood Hazrat Nooh (A) cultivated earth again as did Hazrat Adam (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="118">This is why Nooh (As) is regarded as the second Adam.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Hazrat Nooh (As) was totally devoted to preaching the truth and the righteousness.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He never stopped to doing his missionary campaign in spite of many obstacles.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In such conditions we should forbear and remain steadfast on Allah's way.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">One of them was Hazrat Ibrahim (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He is well known and respected to the Muslims, the Jews and the Christians equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Many prophets and messengers were born in the descendants of Ibrahim (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Hazrat Musa (As), Hazrat Isa (As) and Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) all were born in his clan.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Hazrat Ibrahim (As) was born in East Iraq few thousand years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">They were fallen from right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">They used to go to the astrologers to know the good and bad of their fate.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">They had enormous faith on the astrologers.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Those astrologers used to deceive people by saying about some unknown and obscure things.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The priests would perform the worship on behalf of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The group of priests had some secret communion with the contemporary kings and emperors.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The priests would say to the people: the kings and emperors are the arbiter of man's fate.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">They have got all power to do what ever they like with life and property of the subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">By saying this they used to get worship from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Hazrat Ibrahim (A) was born in an environment, which was full of superstitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He was born in a clan of professional priests.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Though he was born in such a priest family he used to think: Who is my Lord?</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Who is my Creator?</sent>
				<sent id ="140">What is the purpose of the Creator in creating me?</sent>
				<sent id ="141">When the darkness of night enveloped him he said seeing a star This is my Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">But when it set, then he said: I do not like things that set.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">And when he saw the moon rising with all its radiance, he said : This is my Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">And when he saw the sun rising gloriously he said: This is my Lord, this is the best.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">And when it also set he exclaimed: Oh my people!</sent>
				<sent id ="146">I have no relationship with those people who associate Allah with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">After the proclamation of the Oneness of Allah Ibrahim (As) became engulfed by all sorts of adversities.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The ruler of the country also went against him.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In spite of that Ibrahim (As) did not become the least worried, nor afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Eventually the imperial decree announced: The rebel Ibrahim would be killed by burning alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Ibrahim did not become the least worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Because he was a Muslim, believing in Allah alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">And never a Muslim fears any body else except Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The tyrant king Namrud ordered to make a fire-pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Then Ibrahim (As) was thrown into that dreadful fire-pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Just at that very moment (of throwing) Allah commanded the fire:</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Meaning : O fire! Be cold and comfortable for Ibrahim.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">By the command of Allah instantly the fire became cold and comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Hazrat Ibrahim (As) got no harm at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Safe and sound he came out from fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He again continued to call people to the path of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">But still nobody paid any heed to his words.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Rather they reinforced their oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Under the circumstances he left his birth land and relatives and he visited (hizrat) Syria, Egypt, Palestine and other countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">This time also he faced multifarious types of troubles.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Still he did not stop preaching the religion of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">When he was 86 years old and despaired of getting children, he prayed to Allah for child.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Hazrat Ibrahim obeyed the order of Allah properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He took them there and left them there.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Thus the famous well of Zamzam created.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Now and then Hazrat Ibrahim (As) would come and inquired about them.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Allah tested Ibrahim (As) in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">During this the well- known incident of the sacrifice of Ismaeel (As) took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Then Ibrahim (As) engazed Ismaeel (As) in preaching the religion in Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Later on both father and the son rebuilt the ka'ba (Baitullah), the centre of Islam, in this very place.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">After the construction of ka'bah Hajrat Ibrahim (Aa) invited all the people of the world to perform pilgrimage (Hajj) there.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">His call was universal and for all ages to come.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">During Hajj season of every year people from all corners go to Holy Makka to perform Hajj.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The sound rises in chorus there: Labbaik Allahumma Labbaik, O Allah, we are present at your court.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The heaven and earth re- vibrates with such utterances of millions of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Hazrat Ibrahim (As) was Allah's beloved servant and messenger.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">His title was Khalilullah.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">It means intimate friend of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Our beloved prophet sayidul mursaleen Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was descendant of Hazrat Ibrahim (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Another special prophet was Hazrat Dawud (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He was both renowned Prophet and king.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Allah declared in the Quran : Atahullahul mulka wal hikmata wa'allamahu mimma yashawu.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Meaning : Allah gave him empire and wisdom and taught him whatever He wished.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">In spite of being a powerful king he was very much righteous.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The people would always get justice from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">His judicial system was unbiased and free from any defect.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">He was a person of great bravery and heroism.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He defeated and killed the rebel and the tyrant ruler Jalut by his heroism, bravery and war strategy.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He saved the people from his oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Most of the time Hazrat Dawud (As) used to engage himself in ibadat of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Prophet Muhammad (Sm) said : The night time's of salat of Dawud (As) was the dearest salat to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">And fasting of Dawud (As) every alternate day was dearest fasting to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">He would have little sleep in the night.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Most of the time he would weep while remaining in Sijda (prostration).</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Hazrat Dawud (As) was a great humanitarian.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He would pay visit to the commoners.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He would ask them What type of person Dawud is?</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Every one's answer had always been : Dawud (As) is a dear servant of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">He is an upright emperor.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">He used to make iron-armours by melting iron and sell in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The money he earned he would divide that into three portions.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Allah endowed Dawud (As) with an inexhaustible bounty.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">In addition to his physical beauty Allah graced him with sweet voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">He used to recite kitab Zabur with his sweet voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Hearing his recitation the birds of the woods would come down on the ground and ardently listen to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Even the fishes of the sea would come out from water and would hear his recitation attentively.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">They could talk to the birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Hazrat Dawud was alive till he was 70 years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Let us be hard-working like Dawud (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="215">We shall establish justice in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Allah sent on earth innumerable great men in different ages to show the derailed people the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">They are our guides.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">We know them as prophets and messengers of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Messengers who were given the divine books are called Rasul.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Hazrat Isa(A) was one of these Rasuls.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Hazrat Isa (As) was born at Bethelhem in Palestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">He was born without any father.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">His mother was Marium (As), the daughter of Imran, a noble, chaste and virtuous woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Allah is the possessor of infinite power.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">No created being can comprehend his boundless power.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">He honoured him by giving Isa (As) some super natural power in some matters.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Allah the Great, revealed Injil, the famous divine book to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">He called his nation to submit to One Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">He invited them to refrain from all sorts of acts of association of partners to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">They started giving troubles to him from all sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Even they conspired heinously to murder him.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">One day they closed him inside his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Then they sent a person inside his room to slay him.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">But that person did not find him out.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Allah saved him by His infinite power and took him up to the heaven alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">At that very moment, the appearance of that person turned with the image of Hazrat Isa (As) by Allah's command.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Meaning : They did not slay him, nor did they crucify him, rather they fell in an illusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Those who differed about him, surely they were in doubt.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">They have no knowledge at all about him, except persuiting a conjecture.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">And it is definite that they could not kill him, Rather Allah uplifted him towards His own self.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">He would come again on earth before the day of doom in the last stage of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">This time he would stay on earth for forty years.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">He would kill Dajjal, who falsely claimed to be Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">He would establish Allah's rule of justice, and peace on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">This time Isa (A) would preach as a follower of Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="246">After that, he will meet a natural death.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">His body would be buried beside the grave of the Prophet Muhammad (Sm.).</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Hazrat Isa passed his whole life in preaching the Oneness of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">He did never run after his own comfort or happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">His continuous efforts were aimed at turning the common people as to be pure servants of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Where as Allah, the Almighty Creator, created Hazrat Adam and Hazrat Hawa, without parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Similarly creating Isa (A) without father was not a different job for Almighty Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">So, there is no logic to say that he is Allah's son.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">It happened about one thousand and four hundred years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Condition of the world of those days was not like that of today.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The world was quite different in those days.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">There were no mechanized vehicles such as motorcars, railways, steamers, launches etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">One needed several months to travel from one country to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">There were no mill-factories, printing presses, printed books, papers, magazines etc. at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Even there were not any scientific equipments like computers, telephones etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">There is a country named Arabia, far away to the west from our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Its geographical, social, economical and political condition was very miserable and deplorable.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">The lands were all sandy.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Wherever it is looked upon nothing but ocean of sand could be seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">There were no trees, nor any green fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Nor was there any school or maktab.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">No educational facilities were there.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">There was no security of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">There was nothing of law and Justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Drinking wine, taking interest, gambling and other vices were their usual affairs of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">They did not show respect to the law and order.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">There were no misdeeds, which they did not do.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">They were absorbed in Shirk (accepting partner to Allah).</sent>
				<sent id ="274">In history, this period is called Ayyam-e-Jahiliyyat.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">It means the period of ignorance.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">He was the best of all Prophets and the best man among all human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">He was born in the clan of Quraish, respectable tribe of Arabia.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">His father's name was Hazrat Abdullah.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">He died before the birth of Muhammad (Sm.).</sent>
				<sent id ="280">His mother's name was Hazrat Amina.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">She died when the age of the beloved Prophet (Sm.) was six only.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">His grandfather Abdul Muttalib also died when he was eight.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Losing the affection of parents and grandfather he was brought up at the house of his uncle Abu Talib.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Halima was from the clan of Banu Sa'adia.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Childhood and boyhood of Muhammad (Sm.) were very good, pure and ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">In his youth he gave attention to the trade and commerce.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">His behaviour was very good and his character was pleasant.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The great Prophet was very much trustworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">He would treat other's money and wealth as kept in his custody.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">The inhabitants of whole Arabia were pleased and charmed at his incomparably amiable behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">They used to call him Al-Ameen.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Al- Ameen means trustworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm.) formed a youth organization, namedv Hilf-ul-Fuzul.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">The great Prophet (Sm.) became very sad seeing his nation The cave of Hira.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Here Prophet (Sm.) used to have meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">involved in quarrel, fighting, looting, murdering etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">At wartime he tried his level best for peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">His soft heart filled with grief due to the sufferings of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">He would help the orphans and the widows.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">He would feed the hungry and the destitute.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">He would never cause any pain to any body, Rather he courted sufferings himself at the sufferings of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">He, in his heart, felt deep disliking and contempt against idol worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">He used to think how the grievance of men could be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">With the passing of the days his thinking grew more.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">When he was about forty years old he became more and more restless.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">At last he went on meditation in a solitary place, in the cave of Hira, 3 miles away from Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">By then the Prophet (Sm.) reached the age of forty.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">It was the night of Qadar in the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">The beloved prophet (Sm.) was in deep meditation in the cave of Hira.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">There was complete silence all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Suddenly the dark cave became full of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The angel Jibraeel (A) came to him on behalf of Allah with Ohi, the holy message of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">He said to Allahs beloved Prophet (Sm.): (Iqra) Read! Angel Jibraeel pronounced the first five verses of surah Alaq.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Prophet Muhammad (Sm.) also pronounced with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Read in the name of your Lord, who created.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">He created man from alaq (clot).</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Read, your Lord is the Glorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Who teaches by the pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">He taught man what he did not know.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Angel Jibraeel (As) informed him the good news about his Prophet hood.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">He said: O Muhammad (Sm.), you are Allah's Rasul (messenger).</sent>
				<sent id ="322">From that time on the Quran, the charter of salvation, the guidebook of mankind started to be revealed on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">He said: Everybody has to obey Allah alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">He is One and He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">He also said: Leave the way of sin and false hood and follow the way of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Serve the helpless.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Your falsely made gods and goddesses have no power.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">They have no power to do any good or bad to anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Allah is the owner of the moon, the sun and of all the stars and planets.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Only He is your sustainer.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Only He has got the power to give life and death.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">So, obey Him only.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Again he said: Stealing, robbery, snatching away of others goods, gambling, and adultery, deceiving, all these are acts of sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Therefore, give up all these bad practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Speak the truth and walk on the path of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Don't kill anybody unlawfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Do not grab anybody's wealth illegally.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Come back to the path of truth and fairness.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">All of you are brothers to one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">The Prophet (Sm.) also made them understand that this life is not the end.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">There is another life after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">That is the eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">All have to be present before Allah in that life and give accounts of their works in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">And people, who would disobey Allah and His rasul, will go to Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Jahannam is the place of indescribable sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Now, let us make a list of the teachings of the Prophet (Sm.).</sent>
				<sent id ="347">At first Hazrat Khadija (R) responded to the call of the Prophet (Sm.).</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Then Hazrat Abu Bakar (R) accepted Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Later on, many people gradually took shelter under the peaceful shade of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">But, the chiefs of the Quraish did not embrace Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">They feared to lose their Leadership if they would accept Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">So, they started making deep conspiracies and continued to oppress the Prophet (Sm.) and his small number of followers.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">But nothing could stop the Prophet's preaching of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Rather his mission went on spreading day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Thus passed thirteen years.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">By that time some people came from Madina and accepted Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">They requested the Prophet (Sm.) to emigrate to Madina with the hope that they would get him very near.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Prophet (Sm.) accepted their invitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">On the other hand the oppression of the Quraish increased more and more.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The Prophet (Sm.) permitted the Muslims to emigrate to Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Getting his Zabal-e-Thaur.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The Prophet (Sm.) stayed here for three days at the time of hijrat.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Hazrat Abu Bakar (R) was with permission the Muslims left Makka for Madina leaving all their belongings behind.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">In the mean time the Quraish leaders conspired to kill the Prophet (sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="365">With this end in view they surrounded the Prophet's house at the dead of night fully armed.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Allah informed the prophet of all intrigues through His angels.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">He also commanded him to emigrate from Makka as early as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">This emigration or hijrat means leaving one's homeland for any right cause.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Hazrat Abu Bakar (R) accompanied the Prophet (Sm) at the time of his hizrat.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">They took shelter in the cave Thaur as the Quraish pursued them.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Islam got new speed and new energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">The People, who emigrated from Makka to Madina, are called Muhajirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Muhajir means a person who does hijrat meaning who emigrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">The people who sheltered the Muhajir (emigrated people) are called Ansar.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Ansar means helpers.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">After the hijrat the Prophet (Sm.) established an Islamic society at Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">He formed a nice Islamic society according to the rules and regulations, given by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Peace and welfare prevailed in this society.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">The glory of Islam spread up gradually day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">On the other hand the unbelievers and idolaters became envious in their hearts seeing the glorious day of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">They made a plan of war to hinder the progress of Muslim power forever totally.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">With this end they started to attack Madina with a huge army.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">There is a wide field, named Badr, southernly seventy miles away from Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">The two forces met face to face in this field.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">On one side there was the Quraish army.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">On the other hand the number of the Muslim crusading army was only three hundred and thirteen.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">This negligible army of the Muslims had no mentionable weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">But this army was full of indomitable courage and velour due to their firm faith on Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">They fought gallantly against the Quraish troops.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Eventually the Muslims became victorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">This was proved in the battle of Badr.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">The Quraish army was badly defeated in the battle of Badr.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Still they did not become disheartened, rather they continued to attack the Muslims repeatedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Among these attacks the battle of Uhud and that of Trenches were terrible.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">The aim of the unbelievers was to totally destroy the Muslims and Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">But Allah wished Islam to be victorious in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">He frustrated all the evil designs and conspiracy of the unbelievers.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">The strength and power of the Muslims increased manifold day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">The mountain Uhud- where the battle occurred, 70 Muslim warriors became martyred.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">The Prophet (Sm.) lost his two teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">with dawat (invitation) of Islam to many rulers of many countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">It's the 8th year of Hijri.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">The Prophet (Sm.) started for Makka with a huge gathering of ten thousand crusaders.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">The unbelievers of Makka did not dare to face and fight them.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">The Prophet (Sm.) captured Makka through a bloodless battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">But the kind Prophet (sm.) took no revenge against them.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Rather, he openly declared: He forgave them all.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">All the Quraish people became over whelmed with his generosity.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Thus the establishment of Islamic state came to reality.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">With this the Islamic social order got started.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">In the 10th hijri year the Prophet (Sm.) in accompany of his followers started for Hajj (the holy pilgrimage).</sent>
				<sent id ="412">The Muslims from all around gathered in the wide field of Arafat.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">The Prophet (Sm.) performed Hajj in the house of Ka'ba with more than one lac followers.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">In this address, addressing the huge gathering, he said: I have no complain against you.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">All Muslims are brothers to one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">The life and property of all Muslims are sacred and honourable to one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Always behave well with all of your sub-ordinates, feed them what you eat, clothe them what you wear.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Never forget that they are men like you.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Never should you punish one for any other's offence.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The debt must be re-paid.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">The women have the same rights on men as men have on women.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Interests of all kinds are Haram (prohibited).</sent>
				<sent id ="423">The Prophet (Sm.) said much more valuable words in his fare- well Hajj address.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Concluding the sermon the Prophet (Sm.) said: Good bye !</sent>
				<sent id ="425">My fellows, good-bye!</sent>
				<sent id ="426">reached to all and to establish Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">The Prophet (Sm.) was completely successful in his mission.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">The Prophet (sm.) fell ill, a few months after returning from this fare well pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">The illness increased gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">He was buried at one side of the Prophet's masjid (Masjid-e- Nabbi).</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Our beloved Prophet (Sm.) was the man of the highest qualities and the noblest character.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">In kindness, in contributions, in benevolence, in magnanimity, he is the ideal of all people of all ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">The path of life, showed by him is the path of peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">His path is the path of salvation and welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Meaning : The best ideals for you the life of Muhammad (Sm.), the Messenger of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">The prophet left two most precious treasures for mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">These are: the holy Quran and the ideals of his way of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">No body would ever be misguided if he continues to follow these two.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">We are the follower of the Prophet (sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="440">We should follow his ideas throughout our whole life.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Let the most Merciful Allah enable us to have that ability.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
