<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-sci-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.0</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">197</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2158</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">829</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t53">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Still we often suffer from different types of diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The reason behind this is the fact that we are surrounded by many kinds of microbes of various diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">These microbes enter our bodies in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Most of these diseases are carried by water, air and insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Microbes in water and air cannot be seen with the naked eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">We need powerful microscopes to see these microbes.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">You may have noticed that diseases such as measles, chickenpox, diarrhoea, cholera etc. spread quickly across a particular area.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">These diseases can spread from one person to another very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">They are known as contagious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Some diseases enter human bodies with the air when we breathe.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">They are called airborne diseases, such as tuberculosis, chickenpox, measles, influenza etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Some diseases are caused by insect bites.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">For example, the female Aedis mosquitoes carry the microbes of dengue, and so dengue is caused by its bite.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Again, malaria is caused by the bites of female anopheles mosquitoes which carry the microbes of malaria.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Now let us see why the different diseases occur, how they spread and how they can be prevented.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">We know that diarrhoea, cholera, typhoid, jaundice, dysentery etc. are waterborne diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Now, let us know about their causes, symptoms and how they spread.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">It is one of the commonest waterborne and food-borne diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Every year many people die of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Children under 5 years of age are the main victims of diarrhoea.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">When affected by diarrhoea, the patient rapidly loses salt and water from his/her body.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">As a result, the water level of his/her body drops.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The patient becomes weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">If loose bowel movement does not stop even after taking saline, a doctor should be consulted as soon as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In cases of severe dehydration, the doctor may administer intravenous saline to the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Nowadays oral saline is available in the market, and the procedures of preparing the saline is written on its packets.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Necessary ingredients A teaspoon, a clean pot, edible salt, molasses or sugar, boiled cool water or tube well water.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Take half a litre of boiled cool water or safe tube well water in a clean pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Wash your hand properly with soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Take a handful of molasses or sugar and add it to the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Take a pinch of salt with the tips of your three fingers and add it to the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Stir the mixture using a spoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">This way by mixing sugar or molasses and salt with water, you can prepare oral saline.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Saline can be prepared very easily by following those instructions.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Besides, saline can also be prepared at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">After making the oral saline it should be administered to the patient repeatedly in small quantities.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Once prepared, the saline should not be used for more than six hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Oral saline helps the patient to regain the water and salt which has been lost from his/her body.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">As a result, the patient will not become weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The patient should continue drinking the saline until his/her bowel movements stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Dysentery is a very common disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Many people in Bangladesh suffer from dysentery.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">After entering the body, the microbes of dysentery start to reproduce.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">When they are sufficiently great in number, the patient's body begins to show the symptoms of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Jaundice is a waterborne disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">You already know that jaundice spreads through water.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">It is a contagious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">So, the plates and glasses used by a patient should be separated from other utensils.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The excreta of the patient should be buried underground.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Remember, the patient must not defecate or urinate here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">This disease can be prevented by vaccination.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Like diarrhoea and cholera, typhoid is also a contagious waterborne disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">It is more prevalent in urban areas than in the rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">A doctor must be consulted as soon as the symptoms of this disease are detected.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Medicines should be taken according to the doctor's prescription.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The main way to avoid waterborne diseases is to drink pure water.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Arsenic-free tube well water can be considered safe.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Tube well water does not contain microbes.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Drinking tube well water would protect us from diarrhoea, cholera, dysentery, typhoid, jaundice etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">When water is boiled properly, all the microbes in it die, rendering it safe.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">You have already learnt that cold, cough, influenza, pox, tuberculosis, etc are airborne diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The microbes spread through air from the spit, cough and sneeze of the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">During inhaling, the microbes enter human body with air.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">These microbes multiply inside the body and cause diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Tuberculosis Tuberculosis is a dangerous and contagious airborne disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It is also known as TB or decay disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">This disease is caused by a certain kind of bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Many people believe that TB affects only the lungs, but that is not true.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Tuberculosis can affect any part of the body, such a lungs, intestines, bones etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">A doctor must be consulted as soon as the above symptoms are noticed.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Special care of the patient must be taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Proper medical treatment according to the doctor's prescription and consumption of nutritious food can cure TB completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In recent times, a vaccine for TB has been developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">It is called BCG.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">This vaccine can be given to babies within one year of their birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">You have learnt that this disease can spread very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Previously there was no cure for this disease, and most of the patients died of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">But it can now be cured completely through proper treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In the past, it was mistakenly believed that pox was a dangerous airborne contagious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It is no longer thought so.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">There was a time when people were very afraid of smallpox.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">This disease spreads very quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">In the past many people died from this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The recent discovery of its vaccine has made this possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Like smallpox, chickenpox is also an epidemic disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Although chickenpox is not as dangerous as smallpox, it is quite painful.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">But it is not fatal.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">It is caused by a type of virus..</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The blisters are soft, and they contain a watery liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Within a few days the blisters start drying up, and they itch severely at this stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Do not scratch the blisters with your nails.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Put neem leaves in water and boil it.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Sponge the patient's body with this water.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Instructions of the doctor must be followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Pox is a contagious disease, so like other contagious diseases, it also needs to be prevented.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In dirty environments worms can grow very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">That is why many people in our country suffer from stomach diseases caused by worms.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Children are more likely to be affected by worms.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">There are many types of worms, such as ringworms, threadworms, hookworms etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">People are mostly affected by ringworms.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Worms are generally found in the soil, water and foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The eggs of worms enter our body through food, water and our skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Adult worms absorb most of the nutrition of the food eaten by the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">You have already learnt that dirtiness is the main factor behind the spreading of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Ringworms lay egg in the intestine of the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">These eggs are excreted from the body through the faeces.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Inside the eggs, the larvae of the worms slowly mature.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">In this condition, the eggs can survive for a long time in dirty and moist places.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">If these symptoms are detected, a doctor must be consulted immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The presence of the disease can be confirmed by testing the saliva and blood of the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This disease can be cured completely through proper and timely treatment and consumption of nutritious food.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">If proper treatment is not carried out, it makes the patient greatly prone to heart diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">AIDS is a lethal disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">A virus called HIV causes this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The full name of this virus is Human Immuno- deficiency Virus.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">A mother infected by AIDS can pass on the disease to her child by birth or by breastfeeding her child.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">If the blood of an AIDS patient is transfused to a healthy person, he/she will also be infected with AIDS.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Symptoms of AIDS A healthy person can be infected with AIDS by any of the ways mentioned above.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">HIV virus enters the human body and destroys its immune system.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">No medicine has yet been discovered anywhere in the world which can cure this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">As a result, an AIDS patient is doomed to die inevitably.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">But carefulness can help prevent this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">If a patient requires blood, the blood of the donor must be checked prior to transfusion for possible HIV infections.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Needles and syringes used by AIDS patients must not be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">No organ of an AIDS patient should be transplanted into a healthy person.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Mothers infected with HIV should not breastfeed their babies.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">You all know that health is wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Health equals mental and physical fitness.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Besides these, one has to take care of one's health.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Neglecting these organs of the body may cause different diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">By taking care of our bodies, we can prevent many diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Skin covers our body from head to toe.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Ringworm, scabies, eczema etc. are examples of skin diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">These diseases can easily spread through dirty skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">These are contagious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">We can prevent them only by keeping our skin clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">In order to keep our skin clean, we must have baths regularly using soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Besides, you should also consult your doctor.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Remember, never use a drug without a doctor's prescription.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Hair increases the beauty of our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">It also protects the skin of the head from excessive heat, cold and dust.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Dirty hair can cause many different skin diseases and dandruff on our scalp.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">If hair is not cleaned regularly, lice may appear in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Lice can cause scalp infections.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">This way lice, dandruff or skin diseases can damage the skin of the scalp.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">It is necessary to wash hair with soap or shampoo and comb it regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">These will prevent dust from depositing in hair and lice from living in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Teeth increase the beauty of the face.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">We chew food using our teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Negligence in taking care of teeth can cause many complexities.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Among these, tooth decay, pain and swelling of gums are major problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">These are symptoms of a disease called pyorea.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It causes early loss of teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">It is best to brush teeth after every meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">They damage the gums and cause teeth to decay.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">This decay of teeth is called dental caries.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Children suffer from this disease the most.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Another dangerous disease of teeth is gingivitis.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The filth accumulating between teeth is called dental plaque.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Over time, this plaque becomes as solid as stone and causes gums to bleed.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Many people go to quack dentists for treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">This causes serious damage to teeth and gums.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">We use our ears to hear.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The inner part of the ear is soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">If dirt accumulates inside the ear and you use something sharp to clean it, it may rupture the eardrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It may also be ruptured if someone pulls the ear or slap it.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">If the eardrum is ruptured, it causes hearing to be impaired.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Sometimes during bathing, water gets into the ear.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">While a baby is feeding or vomiting in a lying position, drops of milk may enter its ear.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">This may cause infections inside the ear.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Ear infections are harmful, and they may impair hearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Also, some children are unable to hear anything since birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">They are called deaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">We see with our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Eyes provide us with our sense of sight.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">A blind person cannot see this beautiful world.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Ophthalmia, sty, cataract etc. are common diseases of the eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">You have already learnt that people become night-blind due to deficiency of vitamin A.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">We often unknowingly damage this valuable organ of ours.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Mix a little salt with some lukewarm hot water.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Soak a piece of cloth in the water and sponge your eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">This will make your eyes feel better.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Do not use any medicine or ointment without 73Introduction to Environment : Science doctor's prescription.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Negligence and consulting quack physicians can damage our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Sometimes a boil is formed on the lower or upper lid of an eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">In many cases this boil gradually disappears by itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">But in some cases it gradually grows bigger and harder.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">In such case, the patient feels uncomfortable and experiences pain in the eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">If the eye is sponged with lukewarm water mixed with a little salt, it eases the pain of the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">This treatment can be administered up to 3 or 4 times in a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">A doctor can be consulted if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Sometimes this boil ruptures, and gives out blood and pus.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">We smell things with our nose.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">It provides us with our sense of smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Allergies and colds can block nasal passages.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Deposition of large amounts of mucus in nose may cause infection in children and sinus problems in adults.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Accumulation of dirt or mucus in the nose can cause various complexities.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
