<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>5-sci-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.085</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">244</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3070</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">964</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t57">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">If you look around ourselves, we see many things moving or in motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">What is the reason behind this motion?</sent>
				<sent id ="3">It can be said that objects move because of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Without energy, the world around us would have been motionless.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">This applies not only to humans or animals, but to any moving vehicles, machinery and all other moving objects.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">So it is energy which has kept our world in motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Numerous examples of the use of energy can be observed in our daily lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">For example, you want to walk to a place.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In order to walk you must exert energy through your muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">If you go somewhere on a rickshaw, the rickshaw-puller must exert force to pull his rickshaw.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">If you want to lift water from a tube-well, energy must be applied in order to exert pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In Grade Four, you have become acquainted with electricity, heat and sound energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">There you have seen the application of these types of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Some applications of these types of energy will be described here once again.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Electrical energy needs to be applied in order to power light bulbs, ceiling fans, televisions and computers.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Machines powered by electricity are used to husk paddy, grind wheat and powder spices.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Pumps powered by electricity are used for irrigational purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">From our daily lives we can cite many examples of such machines which are powered by electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">We can change ice to water and water to steam by applying heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">This is an example of application of heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">We also cook our food by applying heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">This is another example of application of heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">This application of sound energy is indispensable in our lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Without it we would not be able to talk.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In the same manner we play different musical instruments and create music.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">We use these types of energy to do work.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Studying, lifting water from tube-wells, pulling rickshaws are all examples of work in our everyday lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">In scientific terms, when displacement of an object occurs upon application of energy, work is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">For example, a rickshaw-puller pulls a rickshaw.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The rickshaw-puller exerts force and causes the rickshaw to move forward, displacement of rickshaw occurs, hence work is being done.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">In this manner, whenever displacement of an object occurs upon the exertion of an external force, work is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">However, in some cases, work can be done without movement or displacement.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">For example, someone is pushing a wall very hard, but the wall is not moving.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">In this case, as no displacement is taking place, in scientific terms no work is being done.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">However, since an effort is exerted to push the wall, we refer to it as work in our everyday lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">In scientific terms, studying is not a type of work either, because no displacement occurs during studying.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">But practically, studying is a kind of work.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">So, it can be said that work is done whenever energy is applied, even if no displacement occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Now let us see when less work is done and when more work is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">So, in brief, we can say that work is the product of force and displacement.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The ability to do work is called energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">That is, the greater the ability of something is to do work, the greater is its energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Now let us see how much energy is contained in one litre of oil or one ton of coal.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">We also gain energy from food.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">We can do work because we eat food.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The food we eat undergoes combustion in the presence of the oxygen we inhale, generating heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">We use this energy to do work.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The main source of energy on the earth is the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">We obtain different types of energy by converting solar energy in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">So these are also different sources of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Energy can also be generated by utilizing air and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Just as heat and light energy can be obtained from the sun, energy can also be obtained from matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">This is called nuclear energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">While electrical energy is generated from this, atomic bombs can also be made from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">There are two types of mechanical energy: potential energy and kinetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Have you ever thrown stones in order to bring down mangoes from trees?</sent>
				<sent id ="57">When you throw a stone, you exert a force on it and cause it to gain energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">And if the stone hits the mango properly, the mango drops from the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The energy gained by objects (or humans or machines) when they are in motion is called kinetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Where does this energy go?</sent>
				<sent id ="61">This energy remains stored in the object kept on high surfaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">This type of energy is called potential energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Imagine someone who is lifting a number of bricks to the rooftop of a building.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Where did this energy go?</sent>
				<sent id ="65">This energy remains stored in the bricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The energy which remains stored in the bricks when they are static is called potential energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Probably all of you have seen people shooting arrows in the Olympics or somewhere else on television.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The archer bends the bow before shooting the arrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">In order to bend it, the archer exerts the strength of his muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">This muscular energy is used to bend the bow or change the shape of the bow.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The energy which is stored in the bent bow is also potential energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">When the arrow is shot, the potential energy is converted into kinetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">By utilizing this kinetic energy, the arrow moves forward at high speed toward the target.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">When a toy car is wound up, potential energy is gathered into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">When the key is released, the potential energy is converted to kinetic energy and the car starts to move.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Now what will happen if we let the brick drop to the ground?</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The further the brick goes down, the more potential energy is converted into kinetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">At the exact moment before the brick hits the ground all its potential energy will be converted into kinetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">What have we learnt from this example?</sent>
				<sent id ="80">We have learnt that energy cannot be created or destroyed - it is only converted from one form into another.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">We can see many other examples like these around us .</sent>
				<sent id ="82">When petrol or diesel is burnt in cars, the chemical energy in the fuel is converted into heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This heat energy eventually turns into kinetic energy which sets the car in motion, i.e. causes it to move.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">We already know that heat is a kind of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The main source of heat on earth is the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The heat which is radiated by the sun is directly absorbed by plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Later the heat is converted into chemical energy which is stored in their bodies as chemical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Plants make their food in the presence of sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Chemical energy is stored in plants when they take this food.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">This energy is later converted into various other forms of energy which we can use for various purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Plants which remain buried underground for long periods of time turn into coal.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">When coal is burnt, the chemical energy contained in it is converted into heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">We gain strength from the food we eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">This heat supplies us with strength to do work When heat is applied, metals expand.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Then, upon cooling, the girdle becomes tightly attached to the wooden wheel.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">From these two examples it can be seen that metals expand upon application of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">This happens because heat energy can flow through metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Thus, conduction of heat occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">However, heat cannot flow well through wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">When temperature increases, the volume of gases also increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">In such cases, the heat energy is converted into mechanical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">We also know about the conversion of heat energy into electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Water can be turned into steam by applying heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Electrical energy can be obtained by running generators using the kinetic energy of steam.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Large amounts of heat energy are produced when petrol is burnt in airplanes.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">This heat energy supplies kinetic energy to the plane and allows it to fly.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">We can see because there is light.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Can anything be seen on moonless nights in places where there are many trees or forests?</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Nothing can be seen except for absolute darkness.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">But if the same place is visited during the daytime, everything can be seen clearly.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">During the daytime, everything can be seen because there is light.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Light is a kind of energy using which we can see things.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The sun, stars, different types of electric lights, candles, fire etc. are various sources of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Among them, the sun is the main source of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">We can see many things around us during the daytime because the sun gives light.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Even though the sun is situated far away from us, we get heat and light directly from the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Actually, light travels the fastest.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The speed of light is the fastest among all the types of speed we see around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Among all the mechanical vehicles around us, rockets are the fastest.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">These rockets cannot yet travel at a speed of 100 kilometers per second.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">On the other hand, light travels at a speed of 186,000 miles or 300,000 kilometers per second.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Your room is bound by walls on all sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">In the light of your room, can you see anything which is on the other side of the walls?</sent>
				<sent id ="124">No, you cannot.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">What is the reason behind this?</sent>
				<sent id ="126">This happens because light travels in straight lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The walls act as obstructions in the straight paths of the light in your room.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">So, the light cannot penetrate the walls, and nothing on the other side of the walls can be seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Imagine that you are sitting some distance away from a source of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Three identical walls made of hardboard are placed between you and the source of light as shown in figure 9.5.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">There is a hole in the exact center of each of the hardboard walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">This experiment proves that light travels in straight lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">You know that light can pass very easily through glass windows.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This shows that light can pass through very clear water as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Now, imagine that one of your classmates is standing some distance away from you and looking at you.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">You can see your classmate clearly.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">There is air between you and your classmate.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Light can pass through air, which is why you can see your classmate.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The substances through which light can easily pass are called transparent substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Glass, very clear water, air, oxygen, hydrogen gas etc. are examples of transparent substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">If the water is not very clear, objects lying deep underwater cannot be seen clearly.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">We can see indistinctly through frosted glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Dip a white piece of paper (which we use for writing) in oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Now try to look at an illuminated object through the oil- soaked piece of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The illuminated object can be seen hazily through the oil-soaked piece of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The objects through which light can pass partially are called semitransparent substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Slightly dirty water, frosted glass, oil-soaked paper and coloured plastic are examples of semitransparent substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The objects through which light cannot pass are called opaque substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Brick, wood, steel etc. are examples of opaque substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Electricity is a type of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This energy can be used to power light bulbs, ceiling fans and various other pieces of machinery.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">In the fourth grade, You have learned about various uses of electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Now you will learn some new things about electricity as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Why does this so happen?</sent>
				<sent id ="155">This type of electricity remains wherever they are generated.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">And so we can say that the electricity generated by friction, which remains static, is called static electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">If you look around yourself, you will notice that electricity is flowing through a lot of electric wires around you.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Wires made of copper or some other types of metal are used to conduct electricity in these cases.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Electricity can be obtained from electric cells or dynamos (generators).</sent>
				<sent id ="160">So, these are sources of electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">You will now learn what these sources of electricity (electric cells And dynamos) are, and how they work.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Electric cells are devices in which chemical energy is converted into electrical energy which can be stored for later use.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">You can make a standard electric cell with the help of your teacher by following the instructions given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The help of your teacher must be taken because a hazardous chemical called sulphuric acid is used here.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Take diluted sulphuric acid in a glass container.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Dip a strip of copper and a strip of zinc partially into the solution in the container.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Now connect the outer end of the copper strip to a flashlight bulb using a copper wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">When the connection is complete, the flashlight bulb will light up for some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Why will it do so?</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Electrical energy is generated by chemical reactions occurring in this cell, causing the bulb to light up.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The flashlight bulb glows when electricity flows through it.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">However, after some time, the bulb stops shining.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">In this type of cell, chemical energy is converted into electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">For use in our everyday lives, electric cells can be made from a dry paste-like chemical.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">This is called a dry-cell battery or simply a battery.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Flashlight batteries and camera batteries are electric cells Batteries are also used in motor vehicles.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Dynamos and generators are a type of machine used to generate current electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Dynamo was invented by the scientist Michael Faraday.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">In a dynamo, a coil of wire spins between the two poles of a fixed magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">This causes an electric current to be generated in the coil.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">In dynamos, mechanical energy is formed from the chemical energy of fuel oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">This mechanical energy is later converted into electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Use of dynamos in both rural and urban areas of Bangladesh is increasing steadily.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">During power failures or load-shedding, dynamos or generators are used to temporarily power light bulbs and other electric equipment.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Almost seven thousand years ago, a shepherd boy called Magnus was said to live in Greece.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">One day, while resting, he put down his stick on a rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">This type of stone was named magnet after the name of Magnus.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">They found that pieces of this type of stone attracted small pieces of iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">These stones were named magnetite or lodestone.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The energy by means of which magnets attract iron is called magnetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Magnetite is a type of natural magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">These magnets are usually made of iron or nickel.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Iron bars can be very easily turned into artificial magnets by rubbing them with magnets.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Iron can also be magnetized with the aid of electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">If we observe carefully, we will find that the attracting powers of a magnet are strongest at its two ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">These two ends are called the poles of a magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">One of these is called the north pole, and the other is called the south pole.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Heavy loads are often lifted onto ships using magnets.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Various types of electrical machinery are made using magnets.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">For example , magnets are used in the construction of generators.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Magnets are also used in compasses and children's toys.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">You have learnt in your Fourth Grade that sound is a type of energy and it occurs because of vibrations.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">We will discuss an experiment here to remind you that sound is generated by means of vibration.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Each school or college has a bell.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The bell is struck with a hammer in order to announce periods and exam timetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">With the permission of your school authority, bring the bell into your classroom for some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">One of you should hold up the bell and let another one of you strike it.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">You will see that the bell starts ringing the moment it is struck, i.e. sound is being emitted from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Now observe the bell very closely.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">What do you see?</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The bell is vibrating.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">If it cannot be seen with your eyes clearly, touch it with your hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">You will understand the moment you touch it that the bell was vibrating while emitting the sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">However, the vibration of the bell stops the moment it is touched, and the sound cannot be heard anymore.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">So, from this experiment, it is proved that sound is created through vibration.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Split yourselves into small groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Each group should ring the bell and sense the ringing of the bell visually and through touch.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">A medium is needed for sound to travel.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">It can be proved by performing an experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Take some water in a transparent bottle made of hard glass which has a tight cork.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The bottle must be of such a nature that it does not crack easily when heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Pierce the cork and insert a hard needle-like stick or metal rod through it.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Tie a rattle to the lower end of the rod which will be inside the bottle.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Now, uncork the bottle and apply heat below it.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Wait for some time and allow the bottle to cool down.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">When it cools, again shake it from side to side in order to shake the rattle and make noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">You will be able to hear the sound of the rattle, but it will be much fainter than before.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Why will the sound be fainter?</sent>
				<sent id ="229">This is why the sound turns faint.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The thinner the medium inside the bottle becomes, the fainter the sound becomes.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">If the bottle could have been completely drained of air, no sound would have been heard.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">So it can be understood from the experiment that air, i.e. a medium is necessary for sound to travel.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The production of electricity is also increasing gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">However, the supply of electricity is not yet adequate to keep up with the demand of electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">So, some shortage of electricity always persists.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">This is called load-shedding.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Wasting energy without purpose is called wastage of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Keeping energy from being wasted is called conservation of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Everybody should be careful not to waste energy but to preserve it instead.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">This type of wastage is not desirable.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Therefore, we must all be careful about the use of all types of electrical machinery.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">This pollutes the environment and can also cause accidents.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">So, wastage of energy must be stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">We shall not leave stoves, electric lights or fans turned on without purpose.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
