<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-artCraft-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.172</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">459</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5532</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1473</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t60">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Various useful things are made of coconut leaves, date leaves and palmyra leaves in our villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Coarse mats are made of coconut leaves and date leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Mats made of date leaves are in extensive use for the purpose of lying and sitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Various types of hand-fans are made of Palmyra leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Some hand fans can be folded and kept in pocket to use on the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The people who have no electric fan at their home enjoy fanning with hand fan made of Palmyra leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Though you may have electric fans at your home, you need hand fan when supply of electricity fails.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">You have certainly seen all these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">You have also used the fan made of Palmyra leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Many village people make all these things to earn money.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">You, too, can make different types of toys like watch, spectacles and flute with coconut leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Many more interesting toys can be made with Palmyra leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">One of these is TALPATAR SEPAI (a soldier of Palmyra leaf).</sent>
				<sent id ="14">This is called TALPATAR SEPAI.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Eyes, lips, moustache, hat, uniform, boot etc. are to be drawn with paint.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">When the bamboo-chip will be moved by hand the TALPATAR SEPAI will throw its hands and legs to and fro.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Very funny thing, isn't it?</sent>
				<sent id ="18">It will not help you much.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">You have to learn to make these things through practical work.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Many people in towns and rural areas know how to make all these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">May be that some of the elderly members of your family knows it well.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">You can easily learn these works from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">You will certainly try to make these things learning from those who know this trade through practical training.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Jute is called golden fiber.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Foreign currency is as good as gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">So jute is called golden fiber.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Jute grows all over Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Some where abundantly and some where in a small scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Long since the work of jute crafts is being done in our rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Of course, the use of shika was prevailing in every house.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Various household things are kept hanging with shika beautifully.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The use of handicrafts made of jute for the purpose of house decoration is increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Come, let us make some very simple things with jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The main constituent is jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">It is available all over the country at all times.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">So, it is not at all difficult to collect it.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Except this, needles, thread, strong adhesive, wire, comp, scissors etc. will come into use.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Bulky ropes are to be made with palms and thin ropes with fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Rope can be made as long as you leave by adding more and more jute at the time of twisting.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">You should seriously try to learn the process of twisting rope at your home.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Certainly, your teacher, too, knows it.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Learn it from them practically.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">When girls become a little grown up, right from that time they learn how to braid their hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">So the girls will be able to make braid of jute easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">For boys, it is better to learn braiding from their mothers or sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Take a piece of thin rope of a length of five to six metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">It will be better, if the diameter of the rope is about 4 mm.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">If you like you may take jute braid of the same dimension.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Keep prepared a medium-size needle putting thread in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">This disk made of rope or braid is your table mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">It looks very simple, not at all to your choice, isn't it?</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Your table mat will become beautiful if it is decorated with a simple design around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Now, I tell you how to decorate it.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">You can easily do it if you try.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Instead of cutting off the excess portion of the rope or braid, complete a way turn around the disk.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Stitching each and every wave firmly, complete the turn around the disk.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">After completion of the turn, cut off the excess portion of the rope or braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Stitch the end properly so that the jute fibres can not come out.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Look at the picture and you will be able to make the table mat easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">You can make beautiful dolls with jute to decorate your house and to hang in the car for beautification.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">It is very easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Doing this you will get much pleasure too.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">You may also present these dolls to your brothers, sisters and friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Let us try whether a doll can be made or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Take a bunch of jute measuring about 8 cm. in diameter, in a natural fluffy condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Make the bunch of jute plain and smooth combing with a comb.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Choosing the smoothest portion of the bunch, cut it in a way so that the length remains about 38 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Keep it carefully and let not the jute-fibres be ruffled.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The diameter of the ball should be about 2.5 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Take care, the jute-fibres are to be set all over the ball stretched evenly and smoothly.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Now go on winding coloured thread spirally just below the ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">After covering a spare 1cm. in length with spirally winded thread, bind it firmly with knots.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">When each braid will attain the length of 6 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">then bind the end of each braid winding coloured thread and cut off the excess jute 1 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">below the binding.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">These two braids are the hands of the doll.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Now trim the lower end of the big bunch of remaining jute fibres uniformly.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Just see, it looks like a doll.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">As such the braids hang equally from two sides of the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Show the eyes and lips of the doll with stitches of coloured thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Now see, whether it becomes a beautiful doll or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">This doll will look nice if it is hung on the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This doll may also be hung at any other suitable place instead of wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Opening the eyes, to whichever direction we look at, every where we see clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">It is clay, the material which we can avail very easily for artistry.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Water remains cold in earthen flagon or pitcher.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The use of these things has decreased in the urban areas now-a-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">On the other hand, the use of imagined without these earthen utensils.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">It is because of this reason that there were habitations of potters all over the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">These habitations are called potter's locality that means the locality where the potter live as community.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">In some places, there are sizable village's of potters, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In the western side of Dhaka city Rayer-bazer was such a big village of potters.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Once only the potters did live in this thickly populated village.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">On various occasions like Eid, Moharram.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Puja, New-year day, fairs are held in different places of our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Certainly, you attended such fair sometimes.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Such quality goods are being made at Nayarhat near Dhaka, Mymensingh, and some places of Bijoypur of Comilla distrct.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">In ancient time artistry on terra-cotta plaques in Bangladesh were very famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The sons and daughters of the potters too become accustomed to make dolls, utensils etc. from their very childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It has been told at first that opening the eyes, whichever direction we look at, we see clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">So, it is not at all difficult to collect clay for artistry.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">But at every work can not be done with all types of clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">You will have to select suitable clay for your work.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Sticky loam is most suitable for making any thing with clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Mixing sticky clay and loam in equal proportion, sticky loam can also be prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">These works cannot be done with sandy-soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">To make any thing with clay, suitable clay has to be prepared first.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Let the clay be well-dried and hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Otherwise it can not be powdered properly it will become flattened.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Breaking and grinding the dry clay make powder-like coarse-flour or rice-powder to make sweet-pie.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Take care so that the lump of clay does, not become too soft like mud or two hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">If air remains in the clay, the things made of that clay may crack.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Because of that, air must be taken out from the lump clay before making any thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Look in the picture rolling the lump of clay how to press and knead it.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The clay becomes suitable for work after exhaustion of air from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Clay is the main constituent for the artistry of clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Now I am telling about some tools and their use.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Small utensils to make clay-things.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">A knife made of thin bamboo-ship 2 cm. in breath and 12 or 13 cm. in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">A small knife or pen-knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">A roller or a bamboo-pipe for rolling chapaties.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Picture of the tools is given here.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">It is hoped that you will be able to make first two following the above description and picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Of course, you have roller for rolling chapaties at your home; if not, collect a bamboo-pipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">You want to know how to use these tool, is'nt it?</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Take up the bamboo-knife in your hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Just see, one end of it is pointed, another end is flat and two sides are sharp.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">You can also make use of flat end, for this purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Observe the tools made of wire see that, the wire of each one is bent in a different manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The shape of each one is different from other.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">All of us know that chapaties are rolled with a wooden roller.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Take a small lump of clay in your hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Take, just as much as you can hold on your palm.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It is as soft as plastic mass of coarse-flour prepared to roll chapaties.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">It can be shaped according to one's liking by pinching, pressing, kneading and pulling.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Rotating the clay in the cupped palm of your hand, press it a few times.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">See, how the clay has been shaped like a roundish lump.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Place the roundish lump between your two palms and exerting slight pressure move your hands in a cyclic manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The roundish lump has turned into a perfect ball is'nt it?</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Make the fingers of your right hand slightly wet.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Just see, how the clay is being stander.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">More you pull the clay in this way, more it will be elongated and slender.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">See the picture and try of course, you will be able to do it.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">How do these look like?</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Show the doll cow, horse, bird, man you made to your fiends and parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">They will get much delighted.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Place the muddy places of parts together and just-press them to get joined.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Properly finish the shape of your animal, bird or man, adding a little clay around the joint.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">These will look like eyes of animal, bird or mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Now, look the work of art you have done is really beautiful to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">In this way you can made various beautiful things with clay according to your own choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Various works of art can be done with cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Many functions take place at home, school or locality such as birth day, wedding ceremony, annual prize distribution on sports.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">New-year day, Eid, Milad, Puja festival etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">One these occasions gates are made to receive guests cordially.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The words SWAGATAM OR WELCOME or the name of the respective function are generally written on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">You can write these letterings with cotton and make any function beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Lettering with cotton looks more beautiful than the lettering with colour or paper cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Lettering with cotton remains raised, for that it is more beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Many people paint or make pictures with cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Many articles for domestic use like cushion mattress etc. are also made with cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">To do any artistry of cotton, cotton itself is the main constituent.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">There are two types of cotton for the work of art.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Let us begin the work of lettering with cotton now.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Take coloured cloth of required measurement red, blue, green or violet, whatever colour you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">But the colour must be deep, light colours will not look nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Make small masses of ginned cotton like small balls.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">At the time of setting, each cotton-ball will be placed very close to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Apply adhesive on the cloth just bellow the ball in a circular shape like a coin valuing half of taka.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">All the balls must be made equal in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">It will not look nice if cotton-balls of different sizes are used in the same lettering.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The size of the ball may be 3 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">to 4 cm. in diameter.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Bigger balls should be used for bold lettering and balls for thin lettering.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Following the picture you can write any lettering with cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">What a picture is to be made with cotton?</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Let us make a very simple picture with cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Picture of a duck.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The duck is swimming in the water of a pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">If so, how many colours will be there in the picture, in total?</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Just four- White, yellow, deep-blue, light-blue.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The duck will be made of white cotton, arranged in layers as used for bandage.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Beak of the duck and waves of water will be coloured with yellow and light-blue dye.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">If the picture is made on deep blue cloth, the blue colour of water of the pond will be found.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">At the time of drawing the picture leave some space blank, at least 2.5 cm. in all sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Place the picture on that very side of a carbon paper, which is inky.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Now draw lines over the lines of the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">On light pressure cotton will be fixed properly with paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">After fixing the cotton it is to be kept for some time to be dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Stretching and folding the cloth from all the sides of the board it must be pasted with adhesive paste.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">In that, the cloth will remain fully stretched without any wrinkle.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Take up the cotton pasted picture in your hand again.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Moving to this side or that, place these in various orders and see which arrangement appear best to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">After making the arrangement to your liking, fix these accordingly with adhesive paste of flour.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Colour the waves of water with light blue dye.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Mark the eye of the duck with a dot of black ink.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Just see, your picture is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Cushion is a thing just like a pillow.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Many of you have cushions on the chair at your home.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">A part from this, there are beautiful cushions in the house of your friends and at other places.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Cushion can be made in various forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">An easy process to make beautiful cushions is shown here for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Cloths of different colours and ginned cotton are required to make a cushion.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">It is obvious that needle, and thread are also required for sewing.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Now take six pieces of coloured cloth, each of these 38 cm. in length and 13 cm. in breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Two pieces of each colour, as such six pieces of three colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Black, red and yellow will look beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Join three pieces of cloth of three colours side by side sewing these with back-stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Join another three pieces also in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Now place one of the two pieces of seamed cloth on the other and sew up four sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Keep in mind, there will be an opening in one side to stuff the cotton in.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Then on turning over the cushion over sewing and joins will go inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Now close the opening with hemstitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Look, after stuffing the cotton in, there are some stuck loosely on the body of the cushion.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Make your palm wet with water and passing it lightly over the cushion remove the loose cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Now a beautiful tricolour cushion is made.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">If you wish, you can make different types of toys, dolls etc. in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">You see your mother often to sew at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Some times you do sew different embroidery yourselves, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Such as fixing buttons, mending and darning cloth, making simple and small handkerchief, table cloth etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">In the villages, the villagers use quilts as well as in the city we use quilts.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Some of these quilts are ordinary and some are artistically designed-quilts.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">These are very beautiful to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">There are birds, fishes, flowers, creepers and, herbs, horses, elephants, human-figures etc. designed and embroidered artistically.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">These are with various coloured threads, just like a painting.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">This kind of embroidered painting is called a needle artistry tapestry.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">This work of art has an important role in the field of arts and crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Long ago, our grandmothers embroidered various kinds of artistic designs on the fabrics, quilt, fans, towels, jainamaz etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">They expressed their happiness and sorrows in those stories composed with needle and thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Yet the village women of Bangladesh are making various kinds of embroidered quilts.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">These kinds of quilts are well known and very famous all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">There is a big collection of such folk-arts and crafts in various museums, at home and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Now-a- days this artistry is much introduced in Bangladesh, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Fulfilling our need, a lot of these arts and crafts are sold in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Appreciation of this artistry has increased in the field of foreign trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Our country is earning a lot of foreign currency by exporting this kind of folk arts and crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Embroidery is done by women generally.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">This artistry develops our aesthetic sense.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">It also helps us to fulfill our needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Embroidered handkerchief, table- cloth, saries, frocks, baby dress, screens, Jaynamaz, etc. are very beautiful to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Of course, you may also like to wear this kind of dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">So by learning embroidery work, you will be able to fulfill your desire and become self-reliant economically.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">You have known about the materials and tools.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Various stitches are used in needle work.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Here are only a few names of stitches and it is also explained how to make them.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Their diagrams are given for you, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Looking at the diagrams, you will be able to recognize and make the stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">You will know about other stitches in the next classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">This stitch is the easiest and simplest among all stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Have a fabric on which you want to sew.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Hold it in your left hand lightly upwards and then have the needle with thread in your right hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Continue the stitches as much as you want, this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">You can sew a straight lined-birder as well as fill the surface with this stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Running stitches are multiple used for making embroidered quilts.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">It is needed to sew the edges of table cloth, handkerchief, frocks, blouses, shirts etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">First of all, the material must be prepared in order carefully to have a hem of even width.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Appliqu work can be done very nicely on cushions, frocks, saries, table-cloth or any dress and paintings with this stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Learning this hemstitch, you can make various designs, following the appliqu system.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Back stitches produce a machine stitching effect, in the right side.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Begin at the right end of the line.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Bring the needle to the right side of the fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Make a stitch length from the end.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">For the second stitch, carry the needle back and insert it twice the material.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Continue this procedure as your requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">This stitch is used generally to join two parts of fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">It joins very strongly.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Except this, it is used to make multiple designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">This stitch is sued generally to make stems of a tree, leaves, flowers, creepers and harps etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">It is used for outlining designs, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">This stitch produces an effect of a twisted rope.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Working from left to right, bring the needle through the fabric at the line of the design.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">You can find the wrong side.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">This stitch looks like a chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">For this stitch, it is better to use comparatively thicker thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Put on the thread in the needle and make a knot at the end of the thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Insert the needle and bring it up at a short distance below.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Draw the thread through the loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Don't pull it tightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The chain stitches appear as back stitches on the wrong side.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">You can make designs on your dress, handkerchief etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">You can make creepers and herbs or any other artistic designs, as filling work with this stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">It can be used for the art of painting to bring its diversity.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">This stitch is done in the same way as stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">It looks very nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">You have learnt different kinds of stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Now try to make a handkerchief or a table-cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Every one needs a handkerchief.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">When you go to the school you keep a handkerchief with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">So at first make a handkerchief.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Learning this you can use or give others as a gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Collect a piece of 25 x 25 centimeter cloth, suitable for a handkerchief.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Sew the edges by hem stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Then draw a design as you like and sew the design with any stitch you have learnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">It will be nice make it with lazy-daisy stitches with various colour of threads.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Then draw a free-hand design in the middle, and on four corners of the fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Make designs with stitches, which you have learnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">You may sew laces at four edges of the table cloth and it will be more beautiful to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">There are many kinds of yarns in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">The knitting needles of a various numbers are also available.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Collect the knitting needles according to the yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">For delicate yarn thin needles and for thick yarn thick needles should be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Roll up the yearn loosely, never roll up tightly; otherwise it will be stretched loosing its softness.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Roll up the yearn by four fingers like a ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Casting loops on a knitting needle is the first step of knitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">It is easiest to cast on loops by one needle and it becomes very strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Generally it is used for caps socks, etc. where it is necessary to make the edge strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">This method needs one needle and two ends of yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Begin with a loop knot leaving sufficient distance from the loop to the end of the yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">The length will depend on the number of loops to be cast on.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Insert the needle through the loop, holding the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Put the yarn over the first finger under the middle and over the middle joint of the ring finger.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Pick up the free end of the yarn with left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Hold it loosely on the palm with the middle, ring and little fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Wrap the yarn around the thumb forming a loop closely to the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Tighten the loop by pulling the free end of the yarn with the left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Continue the procedure until the required numbers of loops have been cast on.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">This method of casting on loops is worked with two needles.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Put the yarn over the first finger under the middle and over the middle joint of the ring finger.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Hold the yarn lightly so that the yarn will not be stretched.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">To begin the process, make a loose knot at the end of the yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Put it into the needle held in the left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Then insert the needle in the right hand into the loop held in left hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Put the yarn around (under and over) the right hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">It should remain on the left hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Transfer the new loop the from the right hand needle to the left hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Continue this procedure until required number of loops are made.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Cast on loops as your requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">To knit, keep the needle with the cast on loops in the left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">The empty needle and the yarn in the right hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Place the point of the needle into the front of the loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Bring yarn around (under and over) the needle in the right.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Repeat to make all knit loops, following this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">At the beginning of every row, slip offs the first loop without knit-ting.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Cast on loops as your requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Insert the needle in the loop from the back top ward and put yarn around the point of the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Draw yarn through the loop, slip the old loop off the left hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Continue to make all purl-loop in this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Follow the procedure for next rows same as the first row.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Notice that, the surface of all completed knit-row resemble the same as the surface of all completed purl rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">It is done at the beginning of a row.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">The edges of knitting become very hard and strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">It is needed to hence knit nice and delicate dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Knit the second loop loosely.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Now there Binding one or two loops in the right-hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Insert the left-hand needle through the left side of the first loop on the right- hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Knit the next loop on the left-hand needle loosely, now again there are two loops on the right-hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Pass the first loop remains on the right-hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Continue the procedure until there remains only one loop on the right- hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Notice that if you pull the yarn on more, the loops will be untied.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Knit the next row alternatively 2 knit and 2 purl frequently.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Continue this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">There will be two ribbed effect on both sides of the completed work.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Cast on 36-40 loops.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">You can cast on more or less, as you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Then knit by two ribbed pattern up to your required length.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Bind off the loops.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">At the edges of length make fringes with the yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Taking yarns cut them into small pieces (15 centimeter long).</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Then have 3 pieces of yarns together and insert them with a hair-clip and make a knot.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Continue this process in every 2 centimeter distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Your scarf/ muffler will look more beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Paper is inseparably relater with our life in the present days.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">We cannot do without paper even for a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">The use of paper is so extensive that it is difficult to estimate properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">There are different types of papers for different purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Let us do some work with paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">There are some works which we do as necessity demands.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">These are to be done, whether we do with pleasure or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">There are works which we do with pleasure and these are necessary too.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">There is pleasure to do and also pleasure to use.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">You may term these works as artistry.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">If any function or festival takes place in your house, school or locality you enjoy it very much; isn't it?</sent>
				<sent id ="373">You use to dress yourself with nice clothings, decorate houses, school and the place of function to your locality.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">You enjoy it much.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">The things which you can make with paper very easily are the flags of various colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">You can make two types of flags- quadrangular and triangular.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Take papers of different colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">The very type of paper with which a kite is to be made will be suitable for flags.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Measure a sheet of paper and see it is 75 cm, in length and 50 cm, in breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">It is good for nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Make the sheet of paper two-fold lengthwise and cut it with a sharp knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Just see, you have got two pieces of paper, each 75 cm, in length and 25 cm, in breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Now taking these two pieces of paper together, make four-fold and cut it into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Paper will not be wasted if it is cut in a calculated way.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">In this way you can make quadrangular flags.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">For triangular flags divide the pieces of quadrangular papers in two pieces diagonally.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">If the papers be fixed otherwise, the triangular flags will not look nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Take same type of paper with which you made the flags.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Take papers of different colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">The measurement of a full sheet of paper is known to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">It will not be difficult for you to cut the paper in size for the without any wastage, isn't it?</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Cut the paper for chain measuring 25 cm. in length and 5 cm. in breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">There will be 30 pieces of paper for chain with a full sheet of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Cutting papers of different colours like white, red blue, green, yellow violet etc. make separate bundle of each colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Keep the bundles of paper in order one after another in a line.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">To make the chain you have to pack up papers serially from one end, of the line to the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Chain will not look beautiful if you take paper of any colour at any time.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Now, start to make a chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Now turning round the other end of the paper set it on the pasted end.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Just see, a ring of paper is made.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">This chain will look very beautiful if it is stretched horizontally with the pillars, posts or wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">It will look more beautiful if it hung down loosely in between pillars and posts.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Besides this you can make chain with one-colour papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Making chains of different colours like red yellow, black etc. separately you can use them for decoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">For decoration, fringes are to be hung in lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">It looks very nice when fringes move in waves in the flow of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Observing the picture you can make the fringes easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">On completion of the fringe making, you can do the decoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">It will be better with the paper which is sued to make kites.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Observing the picture draw a design on the folder paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Now cut the design out with sharp, scissor.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Unfold it carefully and see what a beautiful fringe with cut-out design has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Now, stretch a jute cord in the place according to your need and liking.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">You can make a cut-out floral design with paper in the same method as you made designed fringes.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Take a piece of paper, square in shape, i.e. equilateral quadrangular.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">At first, fold the paper diagonally.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">See the picture and fold the paper three times more as shown in the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Now following the picture draw an easy design on the folded paper and cut it out with sharp scissors.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Unfold carefully and see what a beautiful floral design has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">In this way you can make cut-out floral design of any dimension small or big.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Big flower with big paper and small flower with small paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">In big floral design more design to be cut and less designs in small ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">You can decorate setting cut-out floral designs on the gate.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Care has to be taken to arrange the stage, on the cloth or hard paper in the gate.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Care has to be taken to arrange the colours proportionately and properly to make a design beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">If a form is cut with a paper-board then the same cut-out design can be made again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">y, you can make beautiful artistry even with those things.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">If you look at your surrounding meticulously you will find many such rejected things.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">If you observe these things carefully you will find that in many ways these things may come into use.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Make good use of your imagination, contemplation and desire to make any things beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">It is told here about the artistry with one or two such rejected things.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Take a faultless egg and wash it clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">It will be better to take an egg of duck, because the shell of a duck-egg is a little stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Very carefully make a hole on the narrow end of the egg.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">The diameter of the hole should not be more than 1.25 cm. and the hole will be perfectly round.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Carefully bring out the yolk and other things from the egg-shell with a stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Make the enter in to the shell and wash it properly and make it dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Cutting with scissors along the line of circle make a disk of board paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Divide the desk into three equal parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Take one from these three pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Cutting of the pointed head slightly and placing two straight edges one over another, join them with strong adhesive paste.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Take care to keep the smooth side of the boards.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">See, after joining a cone has been made, the head of which is pointed and the bottom is bulky.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Just see, a beautiful doll has been made of the cu- shell, a thing to be cast away.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">At the time of walking through the roads or streets pebbles of different sizes will come into your sight.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">These pebbles are various colours, shapes and sizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">You will be delighted to see these pebbles.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Some of these pebbles will seem like an owl, another will seem like a bird to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Some of the pebbles look like men's faces.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Sometimes the face will like a cat's face.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Pick up the pebble-stone of your choice and make them clean and dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Observe the stone from different sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">What the stone looks like?</sent>
				<sent id ="454">Does it look like an owl or a man or a cat's face?</sent>
				<sent id ="455">The appearance you think of make it clear with a little drawing and colouring.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Draw the eyes, ears and face.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">Then look, what a beautiful artistry has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Fix the sculpture on a suitable piece of wood with strong adhesive like playgum or aica.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Oh! What a beautiful sculpture of a pebble has been made so easily.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
