<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-artCraft-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.11</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">179</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">1837</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">749</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t58">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Munira is girl.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Shishir is her brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Munira is elder.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">She reads in class six and Shishir in class four.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">For a few days both of them have been painting a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">A painting competition is very near.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">They will submit the painting in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The subject is An interesting event that you have seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Both of them have painted some beautiful events during last three days.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Munira has drawn Monkeys dance, Dress as you like and Fighting of two goats.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">It seems that the ox would hit anybody by its horns in a moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Munira and Shishir came with their parents to this exhibition and function.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">There were hundreds of paintings in the exhibition.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">After a while they would see their own paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">So, they got much excited.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Many boys and girls of their age came to the exhibition.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The place of exhibition is crowded with people.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The visitors are father-mother, brother-sister and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">For a while, there were songs, dances, jokes and a lot of enjoyments.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Now prizes will be declared and distributed among winners.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Then the chief guest will open the exhibition.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">There are three groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">At first prizes were given to group A. The prizes were interesting books in bundles for the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The red bundles are for group A. All clapped for them who won the prizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Munira and Shishir clapped and expressed their joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Father and mother said that his paintings were very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Munira said, Your painting on the ox is so excellent that you will stand first.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Oh God! May Munira apas words become true.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The special prize and 3rd prize had been announced already.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The bundles of books for group B are yellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Shishir is very fond of yellow colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">A boy named Shihan won the second prize.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Shishir and Shishan are very similar names.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Shishir was nearly amazed.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The first prize was announced, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">No, Shishir didn't win.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Shishir became disheartened.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He did not feel like doing anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Everybody at home highly praised his painting on the ox.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">So he had a belief that he would surely win one of the prizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Shishir won prizes for three times in such competition.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Most of the elderly people said that Shishir draws pictures beautifully.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Mother understood the condition of his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Patting on his body and head she tried to console him.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">In the meanwhile, the prizes for group C were being distributed.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Suddenly, there was an announcement that Munira Majumder won the 3rd prize in Group C for her painting Monkeys dance.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Shishir nearly shouted in joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">There is a pleasant smile on her eyes and face.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Shishir embraced his sister with joy when she came back.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">He took the prize in his hand and said, Apu, a lot of books.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Wow! May all be new story books, then it will be very pleasant to read them.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Shortly, Shishir became sad thinking about himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Everybody said at home that his painting on the ox was better than Munira apa's.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">But what is the banefit of saying so? Munira apu won the prize.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">In the meantime, the prize giving of group C was completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">He will also say a few words about this interesting painting.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Shishir is no more interested.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He looked at the dais unwillingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The chief judge is a renowned artist and very dear to the children, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">He spoke a lot about the interesting facts and paintings of the children and praised them.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Shishir was not listening attentively.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">A red-yellow-green bundle of books and a colour box lay on the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The children's best award!</sent>
				<sent id ="64">'When will the function end?</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Shishir said to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He is no more interested in anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">This interesting painting is done by a small artist named Shishir Majumder.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">What is Shishir hearing?</sent>
				<sent id ="69">At first he came to a stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Really he won an award!</sent>
				<sent id ="71">His painting is good!</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Munira apu embraced Shishir with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">What has happened to Shishir?</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Why are you sitting quietly?</sent>
				<sent id ="75">You are called to the dais, said his mother delightfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Shishir almost flew to the dais.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The chief judge gave a big bundle of prize to his hand with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The light of the camera and continuous clappings went on.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Competitions on children's painting are often organised now-a-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The painting exhibitions and competitions are held in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Children are also taking part in the international painting exhibitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Many children like you win awards.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This is a pride for our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Most of you like to draw pictures and you do the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Many will laugh at your paintings etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">In fact, everyone has an artistic mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">There is delight in drawing lines and colouring the paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">This desire is more in your age-group.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">It can be realised looking at the pages of your readers, exercise books and the walls of houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">So he or she who wants to draw, should not waste pages of his text books.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Have an exercise book and draw whatever you like in that book.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">You will find that, one day it has become an album of pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">After a time, you will be surprised to look at your own drawings.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">You will see how you have moved in the word of your imagination, and improved your drawings day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Your mind will be fulfilled with joy to have a look on the colurful pages of these drawings.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The primitive men painted, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">We could understand their lifestyle by their paintings now-a-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">They had no houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">They were unable to build them.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">They used to live in caves and did not know how to plough, to grow food grains.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">They used to live on hunting animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">They used to eat the raw meat of those hunted animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">They used to paint unitedly on the uneven walls of those caves, where they lived.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Many of those caves were invented in Spain and France.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">They did not make paintings to decorate their houses, because they did not know how to build houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">So where would they hang their paintings?</sent>
				<sent id ="107">To draw a picture was a belief in magic to primitive men.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Hunting was their only work.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">For that reason, they used to draw picture of the animals they hunted.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">They had even drawn arrows and spears on animal body.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">It meant that the animal was hunted by those weapons.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">They used to draw such pictures before they went out for hunting.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Perhaps you are eager to know, what are the things the primitive men would paint the picture with?</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Where could they get colours?</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In fact, they could not make so nice brushes like us.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">They sharpened the hard bones of animals, and drew lines by scratching with those bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">They used to make brushes with animal's hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">They mixed animal's fat with various kinds of coloured clay and made colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Thousands of years have passed by since the appearance of primitive men.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">There were numerous ups and downs in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Many civilizations and civilized societies have appeared and disappeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Though we do not know about all civilizations, we know about some of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">And our source of knowing these civilizations are their paintings, sculptures, architecture, handicrafts or folk-arts.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">May be their books are destroyed and there is no chance to know about their languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Think a Negro boy from Zimbabwe of Africa has sent you a painting, painted by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">You became very happy because you didn't fail to understand the painting.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">If the boy would write a letter praising you very much you couldn't understand a single word;</sent>
				<sent id ="128">because you don't know the language of Zimbabwe;</sent>
				<sent id ="129">but you have easily understood the painting by the same boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">They make these in big and small sizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">They fix wooden wheels at the bottom of some of these dolls.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">These can be rolled and dragged here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The stories of these pots are very popular in villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Pictures are painted on pot that is divided into various parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Pictures are arranged one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Pots are generally very big and long.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Some of the villagers sing out the stories on which these pots were made.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The children and elderly people listen to those stories and become amused.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He who make the painting on these pots is called Potua.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Have you ever seen this?</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The potuas also paint on Sakher Haris (The fency earthern ware), Laksmi shoras, stools etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The Sakher Haris are designed with the drawings of birds, flowers, creepers and herbs in bright colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The Laksmi shora is done for Laksmi Puja, according to Hindu religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">These pictures are made in bright colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">There must be the picture of an owl, which is called Laksmi's Bahon (bearer).</sent>
				<sent id ="146">In the villages, the potters make potteries as well as dolls.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Elephants, horses, birds, men all these things made of clay are burnt after finishing.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The colour become brownish-red, which we call burnt-colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">One of these clay-dolls is made as flutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Children are very fond of these flutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Pictures and various designs are done on clay-blocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">These blocks are about 15 x 15 cm or may be smaller or bigger or of different sizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The picture or designs are done by relief work on the surface of the blocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">At first these are made of soft clay, then these are to be burnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">That is why these are called burnt-blocks (terra cotta).</sent>
				<sent id ="156">There are many of these blocks on the walls of the mosques and the temples in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Many of these old blocks were found by excavating.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The burnt- blocks are called Terra-Cotta.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">These are very famous all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">There is no picture of human figures, birds or animals, which are used on the walls of a mosque.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">These blocks are designed with flowers, creepers, herbs and such other things.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Various designs are done with needles and threads on the quilts.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">These arts are being done for a long time in the villages of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The designed hand-fans are done with needle and thread like embroidered quilts.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">These are the main folk-arts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The folk-artists and the Potuas have been doing their works form generation to generation.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The folk-art not only offers them a happy, joyous and peaceful life, but also caters to their various domestic needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">A number of tools and instruments are needed to build houses, house-hold goods and to travel here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">An artis- tic sense is needed to make these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Different artistry are done by designing and painting on these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">These kinds of works are crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The folk-artists are mainly responsible for making crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Of course, there are craftsmen of other kinds, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The tradition of wood-crafts is long.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The artistic relief-designs are done on wooden-pillars.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The uses of these kind of pillars are few now-a-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Beautiful ornamented relief works on doors, windows and railings are done till now.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The ornamented chests, bedsteads (cots), palanquin (palki), boats of Bangladesh are widely known.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The decorative crafts, mainly handloom-cloths, blankets, wrappers, bamboo-baskets, ornaments shoulder-bags made by the tribal people are also known widely.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
