<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-budh-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.38</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">187</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2325</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">951</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t70">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Many great men worthy to be remembered and revered were born on earth at different times.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They brought about a great change in human life through their activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">So, they are respected and honoured by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Their divine character easily wins the heart of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">They are noble hearted, virtuous and righteous.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Their lives are to be followed in words and actions.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Everybody should read the biographies of all these great personalities.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">We can learn many things from the life history of these honest and noble characters.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Inspired by the ideals of the Buddha they entered into the order of monks and nuns.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They also played significant roles for the propagation of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Among them the males were entitled as Theras while the female as Theris.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Among the Theras, the names of MahaKashyapa, Upali, Ananda, Sariputra, MoudCyallayana etc,.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">are worth mentioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">On the other hand, Mahaprajapati Goutami; Purnika, Anopama, Kshema etc. were famous among the Theris.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Moreover, many lay-devotees of the Buddha supported the spreading of Buddhism in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">They are known as the distinguished Buddhist personalities in the History of Budhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Of them, the names of King Bimbisara, Ajatashatru, Anathapindika, Vishakha, Sujata and Mollika are remarkable.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">His family name was Purna.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The name of his mother was Montani.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">He was a close associate of the Princes Anurilddha, Bhrigu, Ananda, Devadatta etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The Buddha, at that time, was living in the Anupriya Mango grove near Kapilavastu.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">In the meantime, some princess of the Royal family decided to meet the Buddha for ordination.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">One day, they started for the Mango grove and took Purna with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">They stopped in a place a bit away from kapilavastu.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">He further thought that he came of a poor barber family and these royal dresses were not for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">On the other hand, the princess were born of royal families possessing much wealth, power and influence.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">If they could leave all these, then why didn't he ?</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He did as he thought and proceeded after them.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The princes Anuruddha, Bhringu, Ananda etc. approached the Buddha and prayed to him to ordain them as monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Just at the moment, Purna also appeared there and paid homage to the Buddha and prayed for ordination.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">At this, the pride of aristocracy valid in them would remain no more.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">As a result, they would heve to show respect to Purna as a senior monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">After the ordination of Purna, the Buddha ordained the Princes.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Purna was known as Upali for he was ordained with the Kshatriya princes.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">After a few days of his ordination, Upali requested the Buddha to allow him to live in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">But the Buddha asked him to live with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Through mindful following of the instructions of the Buddha Upali attained Arhathood (Enlightenment) within a very short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He gained much proficiency in the Buddhist rites.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">So the Buddha gave him the title of Vinayadhara (Master in the Vinaya) among the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">After Mahaparinibbana (Great Passing Away) of the Buddha, Upali recited the Vinaya in the First Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">He was conferred this honour for his proficiency in Vinaya i.e. the style of living according to Dhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Ananda was one of the leading disciples of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">He was the cousin of the prince Sidhartha and his falher's name was Ariiitodana.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Both Siddhartha and Ananda were born in the same day.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Ananda was also ordained along with Anuruddha, Bhaddiya and other Shakya princes.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Ananda, the favourite disciple of the Buddha, was very handsome and a good orator.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">He was also favourite to all for his physical fitness and amiable disposition.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">At the age of 55 the Buddha needed a personal attendant.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Sariputta, Moggallayana, Ananada and many other Bhikkus expressed their willingness to hold the post of the attendant.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Meanwhile, Ananda attained Sotapatti (preliminary path to Enlightenment).</sent>
				<sent id ="51">This was the reason that the Buddha appointed Ananda as his personal attendant.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Ananda remained closely attached with the Buddha till his Mahaparinibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">He extended his service to the Buuddha with utmost sincerity.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Ananda used to listen to all the instructions given by the Buddha to his disciples as well as lay devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">For this reason, Ananda was conferred the title of Dhannabhandarika or Shrutidhara (Master in recognising the Dhamma) among the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Immediately after the Mahaparinibbana of the Buddha, the First Council was held at Saptaparni cave of Rajgriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Only the Arahat Bhikkhus (Enlightened monks) were entitled to attend the convention.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Having received the informotion Ananda engaged himself in deep meditation preceeding the night of holding the Great Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">All the entitled Arahat Bhikkhus began to assemble in the Congregation excepting Ananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The Congregation started.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Ananda played an important role in compiling the teachings of the Buddha as the Dhamnla (Sutra Pitaka).</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He also played a great role in founding the women entrance into the Dhamma as nuns (Bhikkhtini).</sent>
				<sent id ="63">During the life time of the Buddha, many non-Bhikkhu disciples were his devoted attendants.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Among them the name of Anathapindika is noteworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">At that time, there lived a rich merchant named Sumana at Sravasti who had a son Sudotta by name.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">After the death of his father, he inherited a vast property.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Such rich merchants, in those days, were known as S1aresthi.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The rich merchant Sudatta was very kind hearted and generous.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He always helped the poor and the needy.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The helpless could never leave his house empty handed.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">For this reason of boundless generosity, he was known as Anathapindika.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Once the Buddha was living at Sitabana of Rajgriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Meanwhile, Anathapindika came to Rajgriha for business purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">There he became the guest of his merchant friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Formerly, he was the guest of this merchant on several occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">At that time, he was received cordially.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">But none came forward this time to entertain him as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Even he found that his friend was also very much busy.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">This made him so much busy.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">On hearing the news of the arfival of the Buddha, he felt a great joy in his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">He had no peaceful sleep at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He got up early and went to the Buddha just at the time of his morning walk (chankraman).</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Anathapindika paid his homage to the Buddha and sat nearby with due respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">On his return, Anathapindika prayed to the Buddha to stay at Sravasti during the next rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The Buddha was kind enough to accept the invitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Anathapindika came back to Sravasti and began to think how to satisfy the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">At Sravasti, there was a beautiful park of the prince Jeta.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">On request he purchased the park from the prince at a cost of eighteen crore of goldcoins.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Here he built a big monastery with the Gondhakuti Vihara for the Buddha in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Eighty living rooms were also constructed for famous Sthavira monks all around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Besides these, there were also provisions for walking site, asylum and big tank for the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The distance between Sravasti and Rajgriha was about ninety miles.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">For the convenience of the Buddha's journey, he built forty five inns at an interval of two miles.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">He regularly served food for five hundred monks every day from his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The Buddha performed nineteen Varshavasha in this great Monastery of Anathapindika.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Thus he played the most significant role in the propagation of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Anopama was born as the daughter of Majjha, rich merchant of Saket nagara.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">By virtue of her pious deeds in her previous births she was born during the Buddha's lifetime.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">For her paragon of beauty she was named Anopama.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">But she was indifferent to her worldly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">On an auspicious day she went to the Buddha for refuge.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">After paying her homage she took her seat infront of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The Buddha could realise her intention and explained the Dhamma to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">By dint of the Buddha's teachings she attained Anagami, the third stage of enlightenment leading to Nibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Anopama no more returned to her parent's place.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">She left everything and became a nun.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">On that very day, she engaged herself in deep meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Anopama composed the events of her life in verses contained in the Theri gatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">From those verses we can know about her life and achievement.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">In the verses she wrote.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Many of the princes and the sons of the rich merchants intended to have me.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">They sent messengers to my parents one by one to give me in marriage to any one of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">They proposed to offer the ornaments of Jewels and gems eight times heavier than my own weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">I was fortunate ough to meet the Buddha, the fully Awakened One of the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">I cut off my hair and took ordination as a nun.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Havinen free from all sorts of cravings I attained Arhathood, the final emancipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Everything she had including wealth and physical beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">But avoiding all these luxuries and comforts she received ordination in Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">She could realise that not worldy pleasure but self sacrifices bring happiness in human mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">This is the reason that Anopama Theri is an ideal woman who deserves our due respect and honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Purnika was a maid servant of a rich merchant of Rajgriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">One day there was a special arrangement of feast in the house of the merchant.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">It was obvious that the load of duties of both male and maid servants increased on such special occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The duty of husking the paddy was devolved on Purnika.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">But she could not finish her duty at day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">So she went on her duty even at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Due to continuous labour she felt tired and came out of doors to rest a while.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">There was a monastery infront of the merchant's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">At that time the Buddha was residing there along with his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Lights were visible in the rooms of the monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Why is there light in the midnight ?</sent>
				<sent id ="132">As they are mendicants leaving everything behind then why are they so busy , till this midnight?</sent>
				<sent id ="133">While thinking so the night was over.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Purnika regularly took bath in the early morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">As she was ready for going to take bath she found some red flour in aipot.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">It was almost dawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">She was all alone in the stairs leading to the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">She completed her bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Just then she saw the Buddha coming forward with a bowl of alms in his hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Ananda, the personal attendant of the Buddu and some other Bhikkhus were following him.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Purnika's heart was filled with joy to see the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">She was moved at the sight of the Buddha's calm and serene appearance.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Gathering strength in her mind she dropped those burnt pieces of loaves into the alms bowl of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">She paid homage to the Buddha and said with utmost reverence, Oh lord, I am a maid servant.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Please, oblige me accepting this ordinary offerings.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">May you be happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The Buddha sat under a-tree together with his disciples and ate the loaves with heart's content.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Her eyes were full of tears at this sight.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Then why have you no peaceful sleep at night?</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The Buddha ordained her as a- nun.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">She practised Meditation and attained Arhathood.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Though she was a ordinary maid servant yet by virtue of her wisdom she could attain enlightenment.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">This is an excellent example of achievement Purnika's compositions are there in the Therigatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Many greatmen with versatile genius were born in Bangladesh in different ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">They are still honoured and remembered by the people for their meritorious deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Atisha Dipankara is one of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Atisha Dipankara was born in 982 A. D. at Vajrajogini village of Vikrampur in the district of old Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Kalyansree and Prabhavati were the names of his father and mother respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">His parents affectionately called him Qhandragarbha.-</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The ruins of his home stead at the village Vajrajogini are still found.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">It is known as the hom estead of an atheist scholar to the local people.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">From his very childhood he was very meritorious and had a keen thirst for knowlege.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Then he went to the University of Nalanda for further learning.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">There he made on extensive visit to different educational institutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Chandragarbha was ordained as Bhikkhu at the age of twenty nine and was named as Dipankara Sreegnan.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">He went to Suvarnadipa at the age of thirty one accompanied by more than a hundred disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">He studied different aspects of Buddhism there for long twelve years.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Then Dipankara returned to his homeland.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Bangladesh was at that time ruled by the Pala King Nayapala.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Approached by the king accepted the Principalship of the University of Vikramshila.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Besides this, once he was the Chancellor of Nalanda University.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The news of his versatile knowledge spread far and wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">At that time, Buddhism in Tibet was maipractised by the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Atisha Dipankara at first denied to visit Tibet, but later on he gave consent to the invitation of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Approximately in 1041 A. D., he started for Tibet.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">At that time, the communication with Tibet was-not easy at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">He, however, managed to cross over the hazardous route of the Himalayas with much difficulties and entered Tibet.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The royal representatives of the king welcomed him cordially at the country's border.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">They were highly charmed by the knowledge and behaviour of Dipankara.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">They gradually recovered their religious consciousness and got rid of all the superslitions practised previously.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">While leaving Vikramshila, Dipankara promised that he would stay in Tibet for three years only.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">But it became quite impossible to come back home and he lived there till his death.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">He loved the Tibetans from the core of his heart and so he was highly admired by them also.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Dipankara Sreegnana wrote many books on Buddhism and further, translated many religious books from Sanskrit into Tibetan language.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">He also wrote many books on Medical science and technical studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He was conferred the title of Atisa, the highest title of honour in the monastery of Natham in Tibet.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He passed away at the age of 73 in that monastery in 1054 A. D.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
