<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-budh-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.408</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">248</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3050</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1077</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t71">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">None can become the Buddha by virtue of meritorious deeds in one birth only.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">To attain the Buddhahood in future one should undergo a series of births in many forms as Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">He has to achieve perfection (Parami) in each birth practising austerity, charity and precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">These are needed for the purification of character.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">It is, therefore, not possible to achieve the perfection of all kinds in one birth only.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The reasons can be identified by reading the Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">For instance, Bodhisattva had to sacrifice.his</sent>
				<sent id ="8">own life and even he had to leave his wife and children.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">These great sacrifices could be performed only by keeping the mind broad and by destruction of all sorts of cravings.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">No body can do such a great thing in one life.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">This is the reason why Bodhisattva had to be born for 549 times on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In his 550th birth, he was born as Siddhartha Goutama, the son of the king Suddhodana.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">In this final birth he attained the Buddhahood.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">All the deliberations in the Jatakas are full of advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The listeners can easily follow the advice with great pleasure from the Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Besides this, in the Jatakas we find love for all living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The Budhists believe that all living beings are same.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">So they consider other's lives same as their own.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The Buddha was born as deer, fish, monkey etc. in his previous births.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">So, there is the concept of next world after death in the Jataka.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The reading of the Jataka removes the superstitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">We can learn the proverbs Example is better than the precept from the Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Due to these reasons, the Jatakas are completely different from other ordinary stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Every Jataka has three parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The second part is the real Jataka i.e. the actual event of the story.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">It is known as the past story as this part contains the real event of the Buddha's past life.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">We can, therefore, realize that the present happenings is not the actual portion of the Jataka.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It is the back ground or the description before telling the Jataka. .</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The Samabadhan or the solution is the utterance of rebirth.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Five of the Jatakas have been presented here in which the past experiences of the Buddha have been narrated.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">In due course, he grew up and began to lead his family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">At that time, a man of Baneres had a good looking fat dog.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">One day, a man of certain village come to the town of Baneres.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">While walking, he found the dog and intended to be owner of it at any cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He then said to the master of the dog.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Dear brother, please, give away this pretty dog to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The man said,S'ball I take special care of it as you do.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">So I will be able to keep it with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Yes, I do agree, said the man.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The master then said, what price do you like to pay for the dog?</sent>
				<sent id ="41">All right, may you have the dog, said the master of the dog.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Then the man tied the dog with a rope of leather and dragged it.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The dog also followed the man silently without vexation.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">At last, the man came to a forest along with the dog.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The man thought that the dog was very obedient and faithful.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">So it could easily be kept outside the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Thinking so, he entered into the room and fell asleep on a flat piece of ti inber.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Just at the moment, Bodhsattva was walking along that path.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">On hearing the verse uttered by Bodhisattva, the dog said to himself, I also think so.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Let it be dead of night and let all fall asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The oportunity must come for me.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">It was dead of night.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The man and other neighbouring people fell asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">In ancient time Bodhisattva was born as pigeon in Baneres during the reign of Brahmadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The people, at that time, looked after the birds in order to be virtuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">They hung the nests for them in and outside their houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Bodhsattva as a bird, lived in such a nest at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He went out in search of food in the early morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">By eating food he regularly used to come back to the nest to have a rest at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">One day, a crow while flying by the kitchen had a smell of nice flavour of cooked food.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Peeping into the kitchen it found that meat and fish were being cooked there.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He sat outside the kitchen and tried to find out a plan for eating the cooked meat and fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Nextday, Bodhisattva got up and went out in search of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The crow followed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Bodhisattva said to the crow, Why do you accompany me?</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The crow said, I like your way of life and I want to be your follower from now on.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">In this way, the crow began to live together with Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The cook saw a crow living with the pigeon.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He further hung another nest for the crow to live there.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">One day, a huge quantity of fish and meat was brought to the house of merchant.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The crow saw it and felt greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">So it decided not to go out for food next day.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Thinking so, it pretended to be ill and passed the night in the nest.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">In the next morning, the crow denied to go out with Bodhisattva in search of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Bod4isattva became doubtful and said to the crow, well, stay here, be aware of doing anything wrong out of greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Giving advice to the crow he went out in search of food for himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Meanwhile the cook started cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Nice scent of prepared food was coming out.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In the meantime, the cook went out to rest a while to the attached verandah.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">As soon as the crow sat on the cover, it fell down on the ground with a big sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Hearing the sound, the cook rushed to the kithchen to look into the matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The cook found the crow and understood its shrewdness.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">He, therefore, in a hurry closed the door and window of the kitchen and caught hold of the crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Then the cook put back the crow inside the nets.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">It suffered a lot from the pains of the wound.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">In the evening, the pigeon returned and found the crow in a miserable condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He came to realise that the crow did not pay attention to his words out of greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Hence, it became the victim.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Then he uttered.the</sent>
				<sent id ="90">following verse: The greedy are heedless to the good advice of the real friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">That is why, misfortune be falls on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The crow is the vivid example like this.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Uttering the verse, Bodhisattva thought to himself that it would not be wise to stay there any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">So he left the house quickly for some where else.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The wounded crow died miserably.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The cook threw, out the dead crow with its nest.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">In ancient time, there was a king in Baneres Brahamadatta by name.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">During his reign Bodhisattva was born as Prince Mahimsasakumar.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">His younger brother Chandrakumar was born when he was two or three years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">When Chandra kumar grew a bit old, the queen passed away.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Then the king Brahmadatta married for second time.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">After a few days, another prince was born to the second queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The new born prince was named Suryakumar.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The king became very glad at the birth of the prince and wanted to grant the queen a wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">But the queen did not like to have her wish immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">She said, your Excellency, please wait for the time being.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">I shall express my wish later on, Suryakumar also grew up in due course.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Please, grant me it now and make my son the ruler of kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Brahmadatta said.My first two sons are as powerful and spirited as fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">I can't make the youngest prince the king in place of his elder brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This made the King worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">He suspected that the queen might hatch conspiracy aganist his first two sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Thinking so, the King summoned his two elder sons and said.Dear my sons!</sent>
				<sent id ="114">I wanted to grant a wish of your step mother at the time of birth of your younger brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Now she wants to make Suryakumar the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">But I don't want to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">I think the young queen may harm you in some way or other.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">So, it will be wise for you to take shelter in the forest for the sake of your security.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">After my death, my eldest son will become the king according to the rule valid in the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Then do the needful accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">With these words, he bade the two elder sons good- bye.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The two elder princes procceded towards the forest by order of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">At that time, the youngest prince SuryKumar was playing in the courtyard of the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">On hearing his elder brothhers departure for the forest he also accompanied them.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">While procceeding, they reached the mountains of the Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">There Bodhisattva sat under a tree and said to Suryakumar,Go to the lake, take bath and drink w,ater.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Then bring some water for us in a lotus leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">A demon of water lived in that lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He received the lake from the god of wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Don't eat him, until he goes down into the water of the lake,Suryakumar knew nothing about the fact.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Suryakumar said.Yes, I do.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">People say the Sun and the Moon are the divine gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">It is quite false,said the demon,you don't know what (Devadhamma) the divine knowledge is.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">As Suryakumar was not returning in time,Bodhisattva sent Chandrakumar in search of their youngest brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The demon of water also asked the same questions of divine knowledge to Chandrakumar.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">But his reply could not satisfy, the demon.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">So he dragged and concealed Chandrakumar in his house as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Seeing the unexpected delay of Chandrakumar, Bohisattva could realise that the two brothers were in danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He was doubtless about the demon in the water of that lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Here is an excellent lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Please, go down into water for bath and then drink water.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">These will make you free and fresh form exhaustion. Bodhisattva recognised the water demon.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Finding no other alternative, the demon also confessed everything to Bodhisattva that happened before.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Then Bodhisattva said.I know what (Devadhamma) the divine knowledge is.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Do you like to know it from me? yes I do, said the demon.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Bodhisattva said, Let me tell but I am tired of journey.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Let me have a rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The demon then allowed him to take bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">He gave him, food and drink and a painted seat to sit on.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Bodhisatva took his seat and then demon sat by his leg.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Then Bodhisattva said,The man who performs duty in pure, calm and faithful mind possesses the (Devadhamma) divine knowlege.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">He who is ashamed of impurity of mind, possesses the, divine knoledge too.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Being satisfied at the reply the demon said to Bodhisattva,You are wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">I pay homage to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">I like to release one of your brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Now tell me, whom I shall set free.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Bodhisattva said,Release my youngest brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">You know what divine knowledge is.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">But you are not acting accordingly,said the demon,Why do you seek youngest brother instead of the second one?</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Bodhisattva said, yes, I know the divine knowledge and act accordingly too.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">My step mother wanted to make him the king, but my father denied it.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">This is the reason that I seek him first.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The demon became very glad and released his two brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Bodhisattva then said to the demon.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">you are born as a demon because of your committing sin in previous births.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Even you are committing the same in this birth also.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">As a result, you are bound to be born in the hell of terrible sufferings soon after your death.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Come to the right path and you will find way of salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Subsequently, Bodhisattva returned to the kingdom along with his brothers having received the news of his father's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">He became the king of Baneres.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">He nominated Chandrakumar as the Duputy king and Sruyakumr as the Commnder in chief.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He arranged a nice house for the demon to live a happy life.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He passed away after performing the royal duties righteously and found-his place in heaven by virtue of his noble deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Advice : Righteous deeds, assure victory.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">During the reign of king Brahmadatta of Baneres, Bodhisattva was born in a well to do family.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">As he grew up, he came to realise that -sorrows lie in craving or attachment and renunciation brinngs happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">So he renounced the worldly life and began to lead a solitary life in the region of the Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He engaged himself in deep meditation and attained five kinds of supernatural and eight kinds of spiritual powers.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He had five hundred disciples whom he gave the teachings regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">One day, a little poisonous snake entered into the hermitage of an hermit.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">So it was called Benuka and the hermit was known as the father of Benuka.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Bodhisattva came to learn that one of his disciples was bringing up a young snake.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">He summoned and said to him.Is it true that you are a rearing a snake?</sent>
				<sent id ="184">yes, my Lord. said the hermit.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Bodhisattiva said, You should not rely on a snake.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Don't keep it with you any longer.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Bodhisattiva said, I like the snake as much as the preceptor likes his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">So it is not possible for me to leave it.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Bodhisattva said,I foresee your death by its sudden bite.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The hermit did neither listen to the advice of Bodhisattva nor did he leave the snake.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">They found aboundant fruits in a region of the forest and stayed there for two to three days.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The father of the Benuka also accompanied them keeping Benuka into the pipe of bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He opened the bamboo-pipe and said, you are hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Now you will eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Saying this he opened the pipe and extended his hand towards Benuka.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The snake which was so much hungry for several days angrily stroke in the hand of the hermit.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">At this, the hermit died on the spot and the snake fled away into the bush.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The other sages found the hermit dead and they informed Bodhisattva of the matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">He asked th sages for cremation of the dead hermit.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The dissolute never pay heed to the advice of the beneficial friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Then he again engaged himself in deep meditation as usual and later passed away at his mature age.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">After death, he was born in the heaven by virture of his good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">In ancients time, there was a king Brahmadatta by name.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">At that time, Bodisattva was born in the family of a merchant.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">As he was grown up, Bodhisattva began to carry on business in differnt places with his five hundred carts.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Once Bodhsawttva reached a desert of a hundred and twenty miles (60x2) wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The sands of the desert were so fine that they could not be contained in hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Those would fall down from hands through the gap of the fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">With sun rise, the desert would become heated like the burning coal due to exclusive rays of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">It was, therefore, impossible to travel in the desert during day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The travellers crossed the desert at night and took rest during day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The businessmen kept water, oil, rice, fuel etc. with them for use.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">When the sun rose in the horizon, the travellers stopped their journey and untied the bullocks from the carts.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">They arranged the carts in the oval shapeand fixed their tends in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">They cooked food at early hours, took their meals and passed the day time inside the tents.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">As the sun was about to set in, they finished their meals and started for their journey:</sent>
				<sent id ="217">One day, Bodhisattva crossed 118 (59x2) miles of the desert.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Then he assumed that the remaining two miles might be crossed within the night.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">In this way they continued their journey.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The guide in the foremost cart was guiding the others by observing the stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The guide passed many sleepless nights in the desert.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">That night during journey he fell asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">By this time, the bullocks began to procceed in the backward direction which was already traversed.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Before morning, the guide woke up.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">He looked at the sky and asked to turn back the carts at once.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">While turning back the carts, the sun was about to rise up.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The travellers saw that they returned to the place from where they started in the previous evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">All of them became anxious as the fuel and water were already.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">dropped away from the carts with a view to lightening the burden.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Finding no other altern ative, they untied the bullocks, beset the carts, fixed the tents and took rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Bohdisattva thought that all of them would have to die of starvation if he could find no way and means.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">So he went round, in the early morning in search of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">While moving about, he found a bunch of green grass at a place.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Bodhisttava understood that there should be water beneath the area as the green grasses grew up there.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Then he ordered his men to dig the spot with the spade.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">While digging, there was a sound of stone under sixty cubits of the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Bohisattva went down and heard sound of water flow under the stone.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The boy servant was very enthusiastic and energetic.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">With no hesitation, he began to strike the stone as ordered by his master.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">By repeated strokes, the stone broke down and the water under the stone sprinkled up.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">All of them had their bath with great joy and drank water.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">They burnt fire with excess Wheels of carts and the furniture of wood and cooked food.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The cows also become afresh having their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">At night fall, they crossed the desert and reached the destination following morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Bodhisattva this time had a much profit in the business.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Then he came back to his country and lived a peaceful life.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Living a long life Bodisattva passed away and was,born in the heaven after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Advice: Instead of becoming restless, the source of rescue should be found out with patience.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
