<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-budh-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.202</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">199</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2338</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">942</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t61">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">A great number of years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Siddhartha Goutama, the prince, was born in 623 B. C. His father Suddhodana was the King of the Shakya clan.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Mahamaya, the queen, was his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Siddhartha was born to Mahamaya in the Lumbini grove on her way to parent's home.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Mahamaya passed away just seven days after the birth of Siddhartha.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Then Mahaprajapati Goutami, the second wife of Suddhodana and the younger sister of Mahamaya,, took the responsibility of Siddhartha.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Goutama was another name of Siddhartha after Mahaprajapati Goutami as he was brought up by her.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Besides, having been born in the Shakya clan he was also known as Shakysingha.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The Royal Astrologers prepared the horoscope of the new born child Siddhartha.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They marked Thirty two kinds of spiritual signs in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">His name and fame would be focused throughout the world as a Great master.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Since then King Suddhodana was always afraid of his sons renunciation as a mendicant.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">So he arranged all sorts of amusements for the Prince to keep him deeply absorbed in worldly pleasures.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">He tried all his best to see the Prince happy in all respects.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Siddhartha Goutama was trained in- all trades needed by a Prince including general education and armoury.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The King thus left no stone unturned so that Goutama might never come in touch with sorrows and sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Siddhartha grew up day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">But his father King Suddhodana was much worried to remember the prediction made earlier by the Astrologers.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">He discussed the matter with his Councellors and came to a decision that the Prince should be given in marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">And he became successful in all the tests one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Then the marriage of the Prince was held with his cousin Gopadevi, the Princess of Devadaha.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Thus the King Suddhodana got relief from all anxieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Days, months and years passed in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">But the mind of the Prince was IJ peaceless.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Why is there no peace of my mind? he asked himself, where may peace be found?</sent>
				<sent id ="26">At the age of 29 an important incident occured in his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">One day he went out for a visit to the garden of the Kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Ascending on a chariot prepared by Channa, he at first went to the East.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Goutama felt the world to be free from all kinds of Sorrows and sufferings, mourning and frustrations.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">But all of a sudden, he found an old man and said 9 to the charioteer, who is he, Channa?</sent>
				<sent id ="31">An oldman,he replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Goutama again asked, will every body grow old and so shall we too?</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Yes said Channa, We too should have to reach the state like that oldman.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">All at once Goutama asked Channa to turn the chariot towards the Palace without proceeding further.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The second day he paid his visit to the south accompanied by his favourite cherioteer Channa.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The garden of the Kingdom was full of joy and merriment.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Suddenly he found a sick man severely sufering from pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He asked Channa to stop the chariot and said to him, Who is that man suffering from severe pain?</sent>
				<sent id ="39">`The man is sick, said Chanmi.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">He is suffering from disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Goutama then asked, `Will I have to face such sufferings?</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Will my dear Gopadevi suffer like the man too?</sent>
				<sent id ="43">All living beings on earth must suffer from disease, replied Channa.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Goutama stopped there and returned.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Goutama then said, Who is that person and why are the other people crying, Channa?</sent>
				<sent id ="46">In rcp1y Channa said, He is a dead man.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Death is the ultimate destination of human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">No body can escape death.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Goutama returned to the palace this time too.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Last of all he went to the North and met a young mendicant.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Goutama asked Channa, Who is he?</sent>
				<sent id ="52">He is a mendicant who has renounced from home-leaving his parents and all other relatives forever replied Channa.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Goutama felt that the, mendicant was the happiest man in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">He found his own reflection in the life of the foresaken mendicant.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">He asked Channa to drive back the chariot towards the Palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">No body can escape from the cycle of birth and death.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">So 1 must have to attain salvation from this cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">It is not possible living a worldly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">I, therefore, have to detach myself from all worldly affaires.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Goutama came back to the Palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">In the mean time, his son Rahula was born.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The new born child made him extremely worried to be eclipsed like the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">So he determined to renounce from the Palace leaving every thing behind.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It was the Fullmoon night of Ashara.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Every body in the Palace was in deep sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He got up from bed and asked Channa to bring the horse Kanthaka for renunciation.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Channa carried out the order and saddled the horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Before renunciation Goutama went to Gopadevi's bedroom to seek permission from her.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He found Gopadevi sleeping with utmost happiness keeping the head of the new born child Rahula on her right arm.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Goutama did not rouse her from divine sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Looking at a glance he came out for renunciation.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The full moon of the night was adorned nicely in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">On his journey he saw a small river, the Anoma, flowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">He crossed the river and stopped there for a while.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Here Goutama asked Channa to go back to the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Channa was very much shocked because he had a profound love for the Prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Goutama's deaf steed Kanthaka died on the spot and Channa moved towards Kapilavastu with a broken heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Goutama then went on walking and reached Vaisali.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Here he met two great saints Adar Kalam and Ramputra Udraka.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">He learned a great deal of knowledge on Yoga and meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But their teachings could not satis im.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">From there he went to Rajgriha where King Bimbisara offered him the highest post to hold in his Kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">But he respectfully denied the proposal of the King.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">His five comrades were also with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">He found a nice forest here.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The beautiful river Niranjana was flowing by it.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He selected this pleasant spot to perform deep meditation under a big peepul tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Here he started meditation with extreme hardship.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Six years he went on meditating and as a result he became extremely weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He was too weak to walk and could hardly stand up from his seat.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Thus he came to realise that self mortification- was not the real path to achieve the desired state of fulfilment.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Thinking so, he took a little food and started meditation as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">His aforesaid five disciples could not tolerate to see Goutama taking food and again starting meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">So they left him.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Those five comrades were Koudanno, Vappa, Bhaddiya, Mahanama and Assajita.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Buddhist Religious Studies 5 The Place became more desolated as the five comrades left him.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Goutama took it with his heart's content 'and started deep meditation once again with fresh enthusiasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">In that very full moon night of Baishakha he resolved.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">My skin, sinew and bone may dry up as it will;</sent>
				<sent id ="100">my flesh and blood may dry in my body;</sent>
				<sent id ="101">but without attaining complete enlightement shall I not leave this seat.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">By dint of his comprehensive meditation defeated Mara, the god of evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">He became the Buddha, the Fully Enlightened one.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The place where Goutama attained his Buddhahood is known as Bodhgaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">At present the world famous Monastery of Bodhgaya stands adjacent to the Bodhi- tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Buddhists from all over the world pay homage to this place as the most sacred one till to day.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Its beauty is still glorious and attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Soon after the attainment of Buddhahood the Bodhisattva life of Goutama came to an end.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">He attained the supreme knowledge of the path of Nibbana (Final emancipation).</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The fundamental philosophy that immortalized the Buddha lies in the Four Noble truths including the Noble Eight fold path.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The five disciples who once left him became the first five disciples of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Then he ordained Yasa along with other four mates.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">More fifty youths were ordained as Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The Buddha sent all these sixty Bhikkhus in all directions to propagate the Dhamma, the doctrines of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Alobi etc and many other places.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Thus he preached his doctrines all over Jambudvipa ie, India for long 45 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Before Mahaparinibbana (Great Passing Away) He left Rajgriha for Kusinagara via Vaisali.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">On the way to Kusinagara he arrived at Pabanagara where he fell seriously ill.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">From there the Buddha at last reached Kusinagara.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He lay down there between two Shala-trees in the garden of the Malla Kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">It was also the Full moon day of the month of Baishakha.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Do your respective duties carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This was the final message of Tathagata to His followers.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The first, second and third part of the night passed over.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Buddhism considerably emphasizes the importance of love for all living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It not only implies the human being, but to all living beings on earth as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Even the smaller insects have not been excluded here.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">their size or shape may be.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">May all living beings be happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">All these sayings of the Buddha are the basic principles of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The first one of the five precepts demonstrates to abstain from killing.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Killing is absolutely condemned in Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Since man possesses no power to give life, so he has no right to kill any living being.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Hunting the wild beasts as well as killing the domestic animals is a great sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Goutama Buddha had a great feeling for all living beings on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">He felt deep love for the living beings from his very boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Three examples of such events have been expounded hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Once the Buddha was staying at Gijjakuta hill of Rajgriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Bimbisara was then the King of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The Buddha was very much disappointed at these comments.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">He realised that the Bhikkhus should not wear such type of shoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">It would ultimately make them unsympathetic to the animals and might give rise to the killing tendency.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">So should the practice of wearing skin made shoes be stopped there.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The Buddha then said to His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">This event however helps us realize the Buddha's sympathy for the beasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Since then all the Bhikkhus followed his advice and stopped wearing the leather shoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Again the Buddha was residing at the monastery of Anathapindika at Jetabana.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The Bhikkhus at that time often used to come to the Buuddha to meet him from far off places.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">They had to cross a small river by swimming as the boat was not always available.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Some of them crossed the river riding on the cows duly helped by the cowboys.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Again some other Bhikkus swam the river catchinghold the horns or tails of the cows causing much trouble to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">It caused the cows some time die by drowning.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">People again began to criticise the Bhikkhus and assaulted them.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Some other Bhikkhus let it informed to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">He atonce decided to abstain those Bhikkhus Trom doing so.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He said to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Keep yourselves abstained from doing so.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The Buddha introduced these rules among the Bhikkhus to relieve the cows and their calves from all these troubles.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The cows are very, useful to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">So they should not suffer.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Killing animals is a great sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Realising it from that very day the Bhikkhus never crossed that river riding on the cows and the calves.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Both the cows and the calves are minor animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">But they also possess life like human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">They have feelings of pains and troubles.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Moreover, they are very useful to mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">This is another instance of the Buddha's love for the animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The Buddha during his life time once was staying at Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Earlier he prohibited the Bhikkhus to use the shoes made of skins of some beasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">But a few Bhikkhus claimed that the Buddha did not forbid to wear shoes of the cow skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">So they began to wear that kind of shoes again.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">At that time, a wicked Bhikkhu had a lay devotee.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">One day that Bhikkhu went to the devotee's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The devotee welcomed him, paid his tribute and sat by him with due respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The devotee had a handsome and multi coloured flesh-v calf.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The wicked Bhikkhu had a greedy look over the calf.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The devotee then said to the Bhikkhu, Reverend Sir, Why do you look at the calf ?</sent>
				<sent id ="178">I need the skins of this calf, replied the Bhilckhu, So am I looking at it.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The devotee with no hesitation killed the calf and gave its skin to the Bhikkhu tearing it off its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The wicked Bhikkhu was proceeding towards the rrionastery with skin hidden inside his robes.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The mother cow of the calf followed him calling her , child with her own voice shedding tears continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">As soon as the Bhikkhu reached the monastery the other Bhikkhus said to him, Why does the cow follow you`?</sent>
				<sent id ="183">I don't know.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">replied the Bhikkhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">They saw the blood stained robe and again asked him the reason behind it.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The wicked Bhikkkhu then confessed everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The other Bhikkhus informed the Buddha of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">He called the Bhikkhu and said, Have you actually inspired your devotee to kill the calf ?</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Yes, oh Buddha!</sent>
				<sent id ="190">I have, replied the Bhikkhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Then the Buddha said, Why have you done so?</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Have I not advised you on various occasions to abstain from killing the living beings?</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Then to all the Bhikkhus assembled there the Buddha said, DO never ercourage anybody to kill the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">What do you learn from the above story?</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Here you have certainly observed that the cow could not tolerate the death suffer of her calf.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">You should always remember that all living beings have inherent love and affection for their children.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">It is evident that to every living being, life is more valuable than any other valuables.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The love and affection shown by the Buddha to a minor calf is an excellent example to be followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">This boundless compassion towards all living beings made him the most compassionate Buddha.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
