<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-christ-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.592</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">269</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3325</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">990</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t79">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">What you have done will be praised from one generation to the next.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They will proclaim your mighty acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">They will speak of your glory and majesty and I will mediate on your wonderful deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">People will speak of your mighty deeds and I will proclaim your greatness.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">They will tell about all your goodness and sing about your kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">You know that Jesus came to this earth for the salvation of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">He did his work in three ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">By preaching gospel or teaching and guiding, by the ideals of his life and by doing good to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">He know that the bad people would not like him and his teaching, they would kill him on the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">We see in this world that parents or guardians prepare their own children for the future.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Before their death they handover the responsibilities upon them.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In the society one leader handover his responsibilities upon them.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">In the society one leader handover his responsibilities to another for the continuation of good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Jesus too handed over his responsibilities to his disciples for the salvation of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">It was the first Church of Christ or society of the believers of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In today's world all the believers in Christ are the members of that church established, by Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Jesus founded the Church by appointing the twelve Disciples as Apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Jesus first of all selected twelve disciples for the work of salvation, for the welfare and peace on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">They were the apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The word apostle mean messenger.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Now listen to the story how Jesus founded the church by selecting the apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">One day Jesus went up to hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">There he spent whole night in meditation and praying.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">In the morning he came down from the hill and asked the disciples to come together.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">And he selected twelve out of them and named them the apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Jesus ordered his disciples and said Go to the whole world and preach my word to the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Those who will believe and live accordingly will have the eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Jesus was then surrounded by other disciples and many other believers coming from other parts of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">They came there to listen to him and to be healed.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">All of them were trying to touch him.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Because power was coming out from his body.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">And whoever touched him was healed.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Then Jesus called the twelve disciples together with another twelve persons and appointed them for preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">He sent them ahead two in one group whatever village he decided to go.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">You go, I am sending you as lambs to the ferocious animals like wolves.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Be simple like pigeons but be alert like snakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">You tell everybody that the kingdom of God is near.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">You heal sick, bring the dead back to life and drive out the demons from the tortured.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">You have received without paying, so give without being paid.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Do not carry any bag, money, shirt or shoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Don't waste time on the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">When you go into a house say Peace be with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">If the people in that house welcome you, stay there.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Eat whatever they offer you.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">If anybody is sick there in the house or in the village, heal him.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">If they are in worries speak to them about peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Try your best in my name to meet their need whatever they may be.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">And if anybody does not welcome you don't stay there, thus they will be deprived of your peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They will not see the sign of your blessing.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The disciples by the order of Jesus went to villages and towns and spoke about God.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">They told the people to turn away from sins and follow the path of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">After sometime they were pleased to see the result of their mission and came back to Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">They reported to him about their works.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">They said Oh Lord, even the demons obeyed us when we gave them command in your name.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Jesus answered Yes you will be winner in the fight against the serpent and the devil.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Do not rejoice because you have defeated the devil but rather rejoice because you will be rewarded.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Yes my Father, it has been done by your wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Then again he turned to his disciples and said How fortunate you are to see the things that you see.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">What you see but they could not and to hear what you hear but they did not.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">So you understand how powerful were the disciples, that is, the apostles, the nominated persons of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">But remember that each of us is nominated by Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Do you hear his call Are you ready to work according to that call?</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Now keep silent for sometime and think for what work God is calling you or wants to send you.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Then write down in your exercise book what you want to be in future.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Teacher : Robin, Please tell me what you want to be in future ?</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Robin : Sir, I want to be a good teacher when I grow up.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Teacher : Very good, but to be a teacher, you need much training, knowledge and patience are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">And you will have to work very hard to earn all of these.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Teacher : Joseph, what have you written down ?</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Joseph : My mother wants me to be a priest.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">I am also thinking along that line.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Teacher : Very good, by becoming priest, you will be a servant of the Lord and will preach his words.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">You will teach the people morality and by giving up family life you will serve your people.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">You need to prepare yourself for this from now on.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Though it is a difficult line, there is nothing greater than becoming a dedicated priest.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Teacher : Now, Mary you tell me what you have written?</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Mary : I want to be many things so I haven't written anything down.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Once I think I will be a sister and then again I think I'll be a teacher, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">I am confused.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Teacher : Yes, you haven't decided anything yet, it is natural.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Teacher : No, Pius you and your father are not totally correct.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Because all the lawyers do not speak lies always.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This is never correct to have blind ideas about a man or a profession.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Of course, everybody should avoid free telling lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">But for this you need habit, strong will power, self control and good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">I hope none of you will tell lies, will you ?</sent>
				<sent id ="87">All : Yes sir, we will try.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Teacher : What about you, Jyoti, What have you written ?</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Jyoti : Sir, 1 want to be a doctor and I will treat patients and save lives of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Teacher : Yes, this is a very good call.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">If you are a doctor you can serve many people irrespective of caste and religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Like a teacher you will serve the people of your country.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">For this you will have to work hard, you need perseverance and knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">I believe you will succeed.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Teacher : Enough for today because the bell will be ringing soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">To do something good or to be someone big in your life is the call of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">So God calls us to do something in our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">And though this call each of us is nominated apostles of the church.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Be helpful in all of my thoughts and works.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">We know that God is our creator, pastor, protector and saviour the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He sent his own son to show man the way of salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He showed the Israel the way of salvation by his advice, teaching, works and ideal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">But he knew that it was very hard to followed his teaching and way of ideal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">We know this is why Jesus before his death selected his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">He asked them to teach the people so that man can gain eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">They can live in peace in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">But in gaining this 86 Christian Religious Studies eternal life, it is not enough to serve God only.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Jesus said, You will love your neighbour as your own and will dedicate yourself in serving the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">This is why Jesus gave his disciples many divine qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">But it is very hard to lead a true and just life and to serve the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">And those who do wrong will be damned.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">They will never have peace in life and they will destroy peace of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Before his death Jesus said to his disciples I am the way, the truth and the life.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Uphold your faith in God.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">I am going to prepare a place for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">There are many places in my Father's house, if it were not so, I would have told you.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">You know very well where I am going.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Then Thomas asked Jesus, Lord we do not know where you are going, how can we know the way ?</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Jesus said, I am the way, the truth and the life.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">No one can go to the Father, if they do not come through me.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">If you know me, you know my Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Now you have learnt Him so you have seen Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Philip said to Jesus Lord, show us the Father and we will be pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Jesus said Philip, so long I am with you yet couldn't you know me ?</sent>
				<sent id ="125">One who has seen me, has seen my Father too.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Don't you believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me?</sent>
				<sent id ="127">What I tell you?</sent>
				<sent id ="128">I do not utter from myself but the Father who is present in me, is doing His work.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Trust my word that I am present in the Father and the Father is in me.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">At least what you have seen me to do, believe them.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">You will do greater things than these.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Truth here means the real God.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Otherwise we will end up in hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Jesus wants us to follow the truth of God and his teaching and afterwards be united with God.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Life is spiritual life and eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">If we follow-his path, and teaching on earth, we will enjoy his divine and spiritual peace in our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">And even after death we will have divine eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">So Jesus before his death warned his dear disciples about the above sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">We get them from the teachings and life of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">So we receive the sacrament and Lord's Supper to be united with God and have spiritual life.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Then Jesus prayed to God the Father, for his disciples so that they can remain faithful to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">He raised his eyes to heaven and said, Oh Father, time has come, reveal the glory of your son.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">I have completed the work for which you had sent me.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">I have revealed your glory in this earth completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Now you can take me to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Oh Father, I pray for them whom you gave me in this earth, I have told them all about you.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">I taught them your true teachings and they have believed you.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">I will be no more in this earth but they will remain here.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">So long I was with them I protected them but now I am going.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">This is my humble prayer to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">I am not only praying for them but also for those who will believe me by hearing from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Oh Father, help them to be united among themselves as I am united with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">So that whoever sees them united can believe that I have come from you.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">As you love me so they love each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Once again Jesus told his disciples Yes, I know you are burdened with sorrow and fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">But don't be hurt, don't be afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The world cannot receive him because it can not see him or know him.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">But you know him because he remains with you and is in you.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">He will fill you up with strength, wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">knowledge, power to judge and will enlighten you.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He will lead you toward the eternal life and truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Remain united to me and I will remain united to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">A branch cannot bear fruit by itself, it can do so only if it remains in the vine.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In the same way you can not bear fruit unless you remain in me.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Remember it, without me you yourself can not do anything, not even by the advice of Satan and the hypocrites.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">If you will not follow me you will not have my way.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Do you understand all these?</sent>
				<sent id ="168">You Will understand more as you grow up.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Oh Lord Jesus, I trust you, you are the way, the truth and the life.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">You make my faith, hope and charity more firm so that I remain united with you all my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">And then at the end of my life, Lord, I can be a part of your eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">I pray this through your son, the life giving vine our Lord Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Oh Lord, the God, you bless those who are honest and perfect in mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">But those who are not honest and have left your path, you drive them away.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">You can not do anything unless I remain with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">His speech is filled with curses, lies and threats he is quick to speak hateful, evil words.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">He hides himself in the villages waiting to murder innocent people.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He hides himself in the villages, waiting to murder innocent people.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He spies on his helpless victims.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Those who are more greedy and jealous they usually conspire easily against others.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The people of this world are born with some bad habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Some people can control these bad habits but others cannot control them.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">And these bad habits gradually increase and drag people towards greater injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Among those bad habits pride, greed, jealousy and anger are prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The conspirators do not hesitate to prove an innocent guilty, for self interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Even friends, relatives and very close ones who can be trusted usually engage in conspiring because of certain greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Certainly you have heard about the battle at Palashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">After the death of Nawab Alibardi Khan his grand-son, Sirajud dowla became the Nawab over Bengal, Biharar and Urissa.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Since Alibardi Khan's time, the English came to this country for business.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The English were afraid of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">But after his death, they were not afraid of Sirajudowla.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">But they were very trusted friends of Siraj.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Mirzafar was a very close relative of Nowab Sirajud dowla.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Victory went to the English.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Later Siraj was killed by the order of Miron, the son of Mirzafar.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">And then the English ruled over this country for two hundred years.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The people of India and Bangladesh remained as the slaves of the English.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">In the Bible we find the same story of conspiracy against Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">You know about the twelve disciples of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">They used to hear the teachings of Jesus and observe his works of miracles.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">On that day Jesus was in Bethany at the house of Simon, a leper.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Jesus disciples became angry and said to one another What was the use of wasting the perfume?</sent>
				<sent id ="203">It could have been sold for lot of money and given to the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Reading the minds of the disciples, Jesus said why do you bother her?</sent>
				<sent id ="205">She has done a fine and beautiful thing for me.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">You will have the poor with you always and any time you want, you can help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">But you will not always have me.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">She did what she could.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">She poured perfume on my body to prepare it ahead of time for burial.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Now I assure you that whenever this gospel is preached what she did to me will also be preached.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Then one of the twelve, disciples who was called Judas Iscariot became jealous.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">He knew that the chief priest was plotting to kill Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Then the chief priest gave Judas a purse of thirty silver coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">So Judas was very happy and started to look for a good chance to hand Jesus, over to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Judas is plotting to handover Jesus to his enemies in exchange of thirty silver coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Passover festival is in remembrance of the liberation of the Jews from Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Long time ago God protected the Jews miraculously from the slavery of the Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">In remembrance of that incident the Jews every year observed the great feast.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">They used to observe it for eight consecutive days.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Jesus and his disciples also used to do the same in a befitting manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">What is your wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">I will eat the Passover meal with my disciples at your house.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">And the disciples arranged the feast according to his wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">In the evening Jesus sat with twelve disciples to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">While they were eating Jesus said truly, I tell you that one of you will betray me.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">One of you who is eating with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The disciples were upset and began to ask him one after the other Sureley you don't mean me, do you?</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Jesus answered It will be one of you, one who dips his bread in the dish with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">It would have been better for that man if he had never been born!</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Then Judas one who was handing him over to the enemies said Rabbi, (Lord) is it me?</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Jesus answered You said it yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Judas was one of the beloved disciples of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">He was the treasurer.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Jesus and other disciples trusted him.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">He had the purse always with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">But he was greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">He could not resist the temptation of thirty silver coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Although he was a disciple and close to Jesus, he plotted to hand over Jesus to his enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">On the other hand, the woman who poured perfume on the Jesus head was not at all greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">She showed respect to the distinguished guest pouring the perfumes on his head.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">She did it as a token of love from her heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Through this act she announced the coming death of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">She also completed the ritual perfuming of the dead body in anticipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">At that time it was the custom to perfume the dead body of the dear ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">So you see how Judas plotted only for thirty silver coins to hand Jesus over to his enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">He was very close friend of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">On the other hand, the woman was stranger but an admirer of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">She perfumed his body with expensing ointment to remember his death.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">What is the difference between these two persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">When Judas asked Jesus Rabbi, is it I? Jesus answered You said it yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Jesus gave him the indication to change his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">But Judas did not do that.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Likewise Sirajud dowla advised the trusted friends like Mirzafar, jagatseth and Rajballav to change their minds but they did not.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The traitors handed over the country and its independence to the English.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Should they have done it?</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Not at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">By plotting Mirzafar wanted to be the Nawab of Bengal, Bihar and Urissa.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">But he was unable.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Similarly it is also written in the Bible, that Judas out of guilt feeling in the end he hanged himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">So much money could not bring him peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">So the conscience of each person works like a guard.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">It always helps think honesty and work honestly.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">And conscience advises not to do bad works, avoid bad thoughts and avoid giving bad advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">If we follow our conscience, we all will live in peace in our families, society and country.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">But when we are united with each other with the tie of love, our huts become heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Traitors have no peace in their minds.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">When you understand that you are plotting against someone, leave it immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Traitors are enemies of families, society and the Country traitor invites evil for the families, society and the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Divine pleasure is present in families, society and the country through people happiness and peace.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
