<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-christ-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.431</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">197</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2006</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">687</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t72">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Sing to the Lord, all the world, The Lord is great and is to be highly praised.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The Lord created the heavens Psalms .</sent>
				<sent id ="3">As children one of the first things we notice around us is the beautiful world.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Naturally a question comes to our mind: who created this beautiful world?</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Where did man, the greatest creation of all come from?</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Who is this powerful being who created all this?</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Many questions like this naturally come to our mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">As we seek answer to these questions, we become aware who God the creator is?</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In primary classes you must have hear about creation story.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Now we will know more in details about the creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">You may have heard scientific explanation of man's evolution.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">It is impossible to know and understand the mystery of creation without religious faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">This is why, in all religions faith is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">In the Holy Bible we can find beautiful answers to questions on creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">In the Holy Bible we come to understand the profound mystrey of creation and God's will and his almighty power.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">With how much love God created everything in this universe!</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Why did God create human being?</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The Holy Bible helps us to understand all this in a beautiful way.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Moreover, it makes our faith in the loving God stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Even scientists and scholars acknowledge the great creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">O Lord! How much truth there is in the poem does not matter, but what matters it recognizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">God's Almighty power ?This is what the poet tried the convey.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The Holy Bible says?</sent>
				<sent id ="24">In the beginning God created the universe and the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">How great and powerful is God.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">His power and love are revealed in his beautiful creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">I bow as a sign of acknowledgement of his power and love, down my head before God.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It is written in Genesis, Then God commanded, Let there be light and Light appeared:</sent>
				<sent id ="29">What a surprise God commanded and henceforth the work of creation began.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Yes, with nothing but by the word of his mouth he created everything on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Can you imagine how powerful is God?</sent>
				<sent id ="32">How mighty is his word?</sent>
				<sent id ="33">But you do not think that God, has created everything without any affection and care.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">No, he has created everything with proper order.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He has created all these with much love and care.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">In six days He completed the work of creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">In the very beginning God felt the necessity of light in formless and desolate earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">On the second day, he created dome naming sky to divide the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">On the third day he separated land from the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">He filled the land with different kinds of trees, grass, vegetable plants etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">On the fourth day, he created sun for the day, moon for the night and other plants and stars.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Do you know what God created on the sixth day?</sent>
				<sent id ="43">He created man.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Then on the seventh day he took rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Yes, God was so pleased to see his creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It was beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">He was pleased to rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">He did all these with his great power.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">So he took rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">This shown that he loved his creation as good and beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">You save it because you love it.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">God too, was pleased to see his creation and preserved it with much care and in order.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">We wonder how powerful He is who created all this and maintains an order in the nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">He must love and care for this creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">God is as if a master craftsman.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">We can see the great power of God in creation of the beautiful earth and life.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">There is a bond of balanced in the creation/nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">We praise God, the creator by taking care and protecting the nature and everything in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">We call man the best creature of the creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Do you know why man is considered to be the best in Gods creation?</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Yes, man has knowledge, inteligence and rationality.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Man has many qualities and abilities by which he can do many good things.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">But above all he has soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">His soul and conscience make him the best among all creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">God created man as his own with all his love gave man conscience and soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">This is why man who is created in God's image is the best of all creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">To explain the deep loves of God for man, we call man God's children.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It is written in the Bible So God created man in his own image.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Tajmahal is an immortal memorial of Shajahan.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">When we see Tajmahal, we know his deep love for his wife and his taste for aesthetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Same way, we see God in man and his creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">We come to recognize his almighty power and immense love.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Surely you have heard about the first man created by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">He is the symbol of our ancestors.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">A garden is a symbol of happiness and peace on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">God created man, that is, Adam and Eve, as the best of all creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">He gave the earth and the whole creation to them to enjoy.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">They are to enjoy and care for it and praise God.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He gave Adam and Eve everything and kept them happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Since he loved them so much, he let them live in garden Eden.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But what is the meaning of love?</sent>
				<sent id ="82">In real love there is discipline for your good.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Even though God granted Adam and Eve happiness and peace, he warned them not to do any wrong or crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">You shall not eat the fruit of the tree (in the middle of the garden) of wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The people usually do what is told not to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">They became greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Temptation raised its hood like a serpent in their heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The serpent asked them to eat that fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">They did not pay any attention to the order of their Lord, the creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">They listened to the serpent and ate the fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">What happened then?</sent>
				<sent id ="92">They found themselves naked.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">In other words, they were defited.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">They lost the integrity God gave them.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The image of God in which they were created was lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">They no longer remained distinct, became like other creature e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Because they did not listen to their God.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Thus man started on the path of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">He walked away from God.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">No longer did they enjoy heavenly peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Envy entered their life in place of love.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">All of us till today are carrying on the consequences of that sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It happens in everybody's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Such as your parents, teachers or elders love you.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">They ask you to do many things and forbid you to do many things.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">But do you obey them?</sent>
				<sent id ="107">But you tend to go ahead with what you were asked not to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">You feel there is more pleasure in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">You do not understand how you got this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">This is a bad consequence.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">It is not possible to get back to good life.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Life lost its original integrity and it is a matter of pity for all.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He told him not to smoke.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">But one of his school friends explained that smoking was a great fun and many people smoke.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He offered Jacob cigarette on the way to school.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Jacob secretly learned smoking from his friend and was addicted to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">He used to smoke hiding and never bought food with his pocket money.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Nicotine slowly attacked his lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">So at a young age his health broke down.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He began to get fever and vomit blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Doctor by checking up found that he was attacked by TB.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Hearing this his parents got frightened.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">What a blunder Jecob made by smoking.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Will he get back that strong health he had before?</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Same thing happened in Adam and Eve's case.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">They did the blunder by eating forbidden fruit of the wisdom tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">They found no way to rectify their misdeed.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">God punished them for their disobedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Adam and Eve were disobedient to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Thus they committed sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">God was displeased and sad for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">As Jacob was disobedient to his parents and fell seriously ill and his parents were sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Same way God was sad at the disobedience of Adam and Eve.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Sin is the bad consequence of disobedience, like being ill.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">When one sins, he/she looses peace of body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">God was very sad, so he punished Adam and Eve for their disobedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">They had to live in distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">They were thrown out from the heavenly pleasure and peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">So you understand, what is sin?</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Disobedience to God is sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">There are two ways in a men's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">One is the way of disobedience, that is the way of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The other one is the way of obedience, that is the way of salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Remember one thing, we are after like Adam and Eve.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Try to excuse ourselves impose it on another.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Adam and Eve after eating the forbidden fruit could understand that they were naked.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">They covered their shame with fig leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">They hid themselves from God but God found them and rebuked them for their disobedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Do you know what Adam did then?</sent>
				<sent id ="150">He accused Eve; she had given him the fruit to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">But Eve said the Satan in disguise of a snake tempted her to eat the fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">But God spared no one.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">He cursed all, the snake, Adam and Eve.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Someway it would not be right to accuse another for our own wrongdoing.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">God has given us intelligence and conscious.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">We understand good and bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">We ourselves have to be careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">We have to be obedient to God and live our life according to his will.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">God's will found in the teachings of the Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Elders, parents and teachers teach us according to the word of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">If we are obedient to them we are obedient to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">So you have seen, disobedience is never good.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Whenever we do any wrong the result is not good.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The result of sin is very grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">That is why to say or do something bad, commit sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Adam and Eve thought that they would be more wise, great and like God if they eat that forbidden fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">So from the very fact of the selfish thought and pride sin entered their hearts.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">In case of Adam and Eve, we find the sad result of sin in their punishment given by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Then he drove them out from the garden Eden.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">From this punishment given by God we understand how awful may be the result of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The result of sin is always very bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">We usually say Greed breeds sin and sin breeds death.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">This is very much so.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Greed's of different types lead us to sin and we are punished for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Sometimes the punishment cannot be seen or not given in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">But punishment of sin is a must.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">God of course loves us.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He wants that we repents.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">St. Paul says Consequences of sin is death.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">We are deprived of the eternal life granted by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Now you think what are sins of Adam and Eve?</sent>
				<sent id ="182">They wanted to be equal to God and it was sin of pride.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">They were greedy, wanted fine fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">So they became disobedient to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">What was the result of the sin?</sent>
				<sent id ="186">They were afraid of God, they hid themselves from God.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">When caught they accused each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Their inner peace was disturbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">They got a life of anxiety.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">God wants to free us from the sin of Adam and Eve as well as from our own sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">So he sent Jesus Christ to this earth for our salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">He brought our salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Being obedient to God, accepting the way of Jesus, we too can participate in his Redemption.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">We will know more about it later.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">It is easy to commit sin but deliverance from it is not so easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">One will have to suffer for the sin either in this life or in life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">So the christian life aims to be holy by being obedient to God, parents and elders.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
