<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-christ-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.566</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">255</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2869</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">872</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t78">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Fulfilling the prophecy of-the prophets, Jesus the saviour came to this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">But his arrival was so ordinary that many people could not recognize him.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Even observing his good teaching and works they could not recognize him.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He was known as son of an ordinary carpenter.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">A very few people could understand that he was the Messiah as described in history.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Some people recognized him as one of the prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Many people did not pay any importance rather they misunderstood his words and works.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Seeing his divine authority and power many began to think that he was a religious rebel.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In this chapter we will hear how some recognized him for what Jessus is.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">In the course of time some people believed that he was the Son of God and Messiah the saviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Seeing his life and works, gradually they began to recognize him.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Before we read these, we should prepare our mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Many of us in this era of the modern world keep ourselves away from religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">We don't accept anything without logic or proof not even certain truths.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">But when we read about Jesus, we must be prepared with simple and holy heart and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Otherwise, we may be acting like blind though we have eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">By reading about Jesus we will make our belief in him strong, otherwise this learning will be meaningless.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">With the faith on Jesus we are to be inspired in his ideals and that will be our duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">We are to serve the neglected and poor people irrespective of race and creed.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Acknowledgement of Jesus the Saviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The Gospel presented by John, the disciple of Jesus was written after three other Gospels.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">John was very fond of Jesus among the disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">So he has presented Jesus in his works with much respect and precisely.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">You definitely know about the birth of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">St. John says, Jesus was the word of God before his birth as a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">That very word turned into Man and came to this earth as Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">He himself told us what is life, what is the meaning of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">As we realised the power of light in the dark, so Jesus came as that very light.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">How he acknowledged Jesus as the lamb of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">John the Baptist came before Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Surely you know who was John the Baptist.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">He was the only son of Zechariah and Anna, fruit of their old age.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">He was a dispassionate ascetic.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">He used to live on wild fruits in the lonely plain.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He came before Jesus to tell that Jesus was the saviour and nominated by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">He is 68 Christian Religious Studies much greater than John the Baptist.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">For God is revealed through the life of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Many people misunderstood.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">They thought John the Baptist was that Christ or the anointed Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">But John told them the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">One day what happened do you know?</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The religious leaders from Jerusalem sent a few people to John the Baptist.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">They wanted to know if he was the Messiah or Elie.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">But John with the words of Isaiah made them understand who he was.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He said, He was that voice in the desert which was preparing path of the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">He baptized Jesus with water and explained his baptism.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">He will change your whole body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">He is so great that John is not worthy enough even to untie strap of his sandals.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">John called him the lamb of God, son of God as holy and innocent as lamb.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">He died on the cross and sacrificed himself like a lamb for the salvation of man from sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Yes, thus John the Baptist made himself humble before Jesus and upheld Jesus as glorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">When we become proud and show ourselves very big, we do not show Jesus in our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">But when we are humble and obedient, then we make Christ glorious and we acknowledge him as our Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">So we have learnt from John the Baptist that we acknowledge Christ by being humble and generous.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Do you know the song of humility?</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Though I am dust only, yet I am proud always.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Christian Religious Studies 69 I am in distress, yet, my heart is proud.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">I beg you to teach me to be immersed with humility, to be real Christian on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">You know very well that Jesus performed many miracles.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Can you mention when he performed his first miracle?</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He did it in a wedding feast in Cana.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Many of you know that story.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Yes, Jesus had been invited to a wedding in Cana: His mother and the disciples were there too.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">There was a big arrangement, everybody was busy in making fun and eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Feasting is very important for such an occasion as a wedding.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It is true on our country too.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Many people come to such feast, after having their food they bless the bridegroom and the bride.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">You have certainly attended such marriage ceremony and enjoyed the feast.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Have you ever noticed that at the time of eating everybody comments about the food and cooking?</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Someone may say the meat is very tasteful or the sweet is not up to the mark, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The worst thing is when any item falls short.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">It is a matter of prestige for the host.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It is said that shortage of food at a wedding brings bad luck to the bridegroom and bride.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">There are so many other comments/ reaction like these.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">It is not true?</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Something like this happened in the wedding in Cana.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">It happened towards the end of the feast.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">According to the custom of that region the grape-juice is served the invited guests, to drink to their satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">But grape-juice fell short and the people were very unhappy.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The host was embarrassed.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Jesus mother asked the servants to do as ordered by Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">There were nine big water jars.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Jesus asked the servants to fill those jars with water and they did.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">And then he asked them to take it to the man in- charge of the feast.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The man tasted it and was surprised.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">He did not know where this grape-juice came form.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He wondered why this fine grape-juice was not served in the beginning.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Thus Jesus turned water into grape-juice at the wedding in Cana.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">His disciples saw that miracle and believed in him This way his Devine power was revealed in his work.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Jesus is the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">What have you understood from this beautiful event?</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Jesus was so powerful perosn, was not he?</sent>
				<sent id ="93">He turned water into grape-juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Even now Jesus wants to do such great works.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Many of our wants, much of the emptiness in our life can be overcome by Jesus presence.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Just think, if he would not turn water into grape-juice in Cana, what would happen in that wedding ?</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The people would not have been satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The host would have been embarrassed and the bridegroom and the bride would have been unhappy.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">So everybody was saved, as Jesus was present there.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Even today Jesus wants to help us.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He wants to fill up the emptiness in our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He can do it if we believe in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">We should come forward to solve other's problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">We can do it with our talents given by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Thus we can present Jesus to another's life too.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">We should fill our life with the presence of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">b) We should assist and cooperate with others when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">When Jesus went back to Cana again, he did another miracle.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Do you know what it is?</sent>
				<sent id ="110">He healed an official's son.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">He requested Jesus to go to Capernaum and heal his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Jesus was sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He exclaimed that without miracles people do not want to believe.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">At the request of the officer he said to him Go, your son will live.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Do you know what the man did?</sent>
				<sent id ="116">He believed Jesus and went back home.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">On his way home his servants came and informed him that his son was better.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">He asked them when it happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">So he and all his family believed.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">They understood that the boy was healed by the divine power of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">So they believed that Jesus was the Messiah and they also become real disciples of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">In this story we learn a new lesson.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">It is not right to believe in Jesus because of miracles only.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Our faith should not be based on evidence or logical arguments, such faith has no depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We may do so with our friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Prove it that you love me or you do something for me and prove that you are my friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">We may even do the same with our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">We do not want to believe them that they love us unless they do something good for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">This is not correct.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">We must trust them sincerely and that becomes a deep love.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Certainly, we cannot think that our parents will do us harm.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Jesus also wants that we have a deep relationship with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">We should not test him.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">He will certainly reward us for faith on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The king's official believed him and went back.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Jesus did not have to go home with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">When he went home he found his son healed.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Because without any proof he believed him, he got reward of his faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Jesus wants to see such deep trust in our life too.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">And then we will have our reward and he will be with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">He loves and do good to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Thus with the simple faith we would be his real disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Faith it self is a test.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">It cannot be proved like mathematics.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Faith is established on the basis of love.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">We love God and he loves us too.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">It is our belief that he always speaks the truth, never deceives us, only love leads us to faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">In the same way he should value other's faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">When someone depends on you and trust you, then you should fulfill his desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Oh Lord, you sent your Son Jesus in this earth as the light of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">So you give us that truth in our hearts so that we believe him and have him with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Help us so that we can trust others and share pleasure and peace with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">There was a pool near that gate.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Sometimes the water of that pool would stir up.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">A man was there who had been ill for thirty eight years.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He could never get in the water when it stirred up, for he had no strength to.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Jesus went to Jerusalem for, a religious festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Every time the water stirred up, someone else got there first.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Jesus had pity on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">He asked him Do you want to get well?</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The man told him about distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Do you know what Jesus did?</sent>
				<sent id ="163">But do you know what a problem was created?</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The day was Sabbath, on this day the Jewish people never work.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">But the man who was healed by Jesus was carrying his mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">So the religious leaders were angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">They said Today is Sabbath, why are you carrying your mat?</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The man said that a man has healed him, for he did not know who Jesus was.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Then the man left and told the Jewish authorities that it was Jesus who had healed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">So they began to persecute Jesus because he had done this healing on a Sabbath.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Jesus told them that he is always doing the will of God the father.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">From this story again we see the divine power of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He healed such a man who had been ill for thirty eight years.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">May be it is very hard for us to realize the fact.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">But even now God is doing miracles in this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">He is doing this for a man through others like us.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">If we have firm belief like that sick man, then we will realize who Jesus is.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Jesus has revealed God's power in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">We find God's plan of salvation gradually revealed in all his works.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Here also we find the obstinacy and lack of sincerity in the religious leaders.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">They could never understand the new teachings of Jesus which was God's love and based on the mercy of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Their own pride of power and superstition made them blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">In our life too fanaticism, obstinacy and vanity stop us to realize God's power and his mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">But broadness, modesty and kindness to the people bring us to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Thus we realize the unlimited sympathy of God towards us and to other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">You may meet such a man who is ignorant and stupid whose behaviour may be inconsistent.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He may behave blindly or with pride, we should have sympathy for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Jesus has come to save all.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Awakened with God's love, we must be good to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">We are to face lots of trouble if we want to do good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">If we want to help others, somebody may stand against it or create problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">But never be afraid in doing good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Let no obstruction be on your way.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">To serve the people is to serve Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Remember by serving people, you praise God.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">One day Jesus with his disciples went to the other side of the lake of Galilee.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">He wanted to go to a lonely place for rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">But many people saw them and arrived at the place ahead of Jesus and his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Though Jesus was tired he was happy to see the large crowd.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">He thought They were like sheep without a shepherd.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He healed those who were ill and began to teach them many things.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">It was almost evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Do you know?</sent>
				<sent id ="204">What Jesus said to them?</sent>
				<sent id ="205">He said You yourselves give them something to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">He asked Philip Where can we have some bread to feed all these people?</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The disciples were at a fix, how could they feed so many people.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Philip said For everyone to have even, a little bite, it would take, much money.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Jesus asked How many loaves do you have?</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Andrew said There is a boy here who has five loaves of bread and two fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Do you know what Jesus did?</sent>
				<sent id ="212">He asked the disciples to bring those five loaves of bread and two fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">And then by his instruction the people sat down in groups of fifty and hundred on the green grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Then Jesus took the five loaves and the two fish and gave thanks to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He broke the loaves and gave them to his disciples to distribute to the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Then a miracle happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Everyone ate and had enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The disciples collected twelve baskets full of what was left of the bread and the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Do you know how many people ate here?</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The boy gave Jesus five loaves and two fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The number of people who were fed was five thousand.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Everybody was surprised.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Jesus fed five thousand people with only five loaves and two fish, how was it possible?</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Moreover there left twelve baskets full of the crackers.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">In the miracle that Jesus had performed they saw his divine power and accepted him as Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">They were amazed and began talking about making Jesus their king.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">fullness of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">In Lord's Slipper we are reconcile with Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">You perhaps are thinking of fun.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">If Jesus would give us such food.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Yes, with the blessings of God and with the power of Jesus prayers we are living in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">I can do or make nothing on my own.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Everything of this world like food, riches, prestige and learning all are God's blessing.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">So we give thanks to God at every meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Jesus has taught us in the Lord's Prayer to pray Oh Lord, give us our daily food.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">For God gives us our food.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Parents or brothers and sisters earn money.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">It is true we buy food to eat with that money.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">But God's blessings is on everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">We should not forget it.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Jesus wants us that we help each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">And then only we shall have no wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">God's miraculous power which we do not always understand will then be revealed in us.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">In the last supper too Jesus offered himself as food to his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">In the Lord's supper we remember that.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Jesus gives us not only the worldly food but also he gives us spiritual food.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">By taking that food we become one in Jesus! become holy like him and receive heavenly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Jesus said I am the living bread that came down from heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">If anyone eats this bread, he will live for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Oh loving God, let your loving spirit come to our hearts and enlighten us with your love.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Bless us so that we can love you and all the people without any self interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">a) Jesus has come to this earth to give us life of body and spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">b) Like the sacrifice of Jesus, we will also dedicate ourselves to God to serve and love other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">c) In this world, whatever we eat to live, is God's gifts to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">We should always be grateful to him for that.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
