<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-christ-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.542</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">276</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3229</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1076</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t77">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In the creation story it is said that God has created the beautiful earth for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">For our necessity he created moon, sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">stars, rivers, hills and mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He has arranged the earth as he pleased with trees, birds, light and air.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">He has enriched the earth with all kinds of elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Like this way He made the garden Eden.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">There God gave Adam perfect peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">But being Tempted by the devil they had committed sin disobeying the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The Lord was very sad and displeased.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">He drove them out from Eden.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">But God had promised saying that he would send someone to save them from their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">How did God keep his promise?</sent>
				<sent id ="13">We will discuss it now.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Jesus Christ was that promised saviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The birth of Jesus Christ is nicely written in the New Testament in the Holy Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">A pious young girl named Mary lived in the town of Nazarath in Galilee.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Mary was engaged to, Joseph, a good young man, descendant of David.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">One day the angel Gabriel came from the Lord with a message.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">He welcomed Mary and said Peace be with you, the Lord is with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Mary was deeply troubled and tried to understand what his word meant.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The angel said again, Do not be afraid, Mary, God has been gracious to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">You will become pregnant and give birth to a son and you will name him Jesus (Saviour).</sent>
				<sent id ="23">He will be great and will be called the son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">his kingdom will never end.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Mary said to the angel I am a virgin, how can this happen?</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The angel said The Holy Spirit will come upon you and God's power will rest upon you.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">For this reason, the holy child will be called the son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Remember your relative Elizabeth is pregnant even though she is very old.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">For there is nothing that God cannot do.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Mary then accepted it and said I am the Lord's servant, may it happen to me as you have said.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">And the angel left her.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">For it is by the Holy Spirit that she has conceived.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">She will have a son and you will name him Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Because he will save his people form their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">And when Mary gave birth to a son he named him Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">God loves us so much, he made us like him.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">But like Adam and Eve we too hurt God by committing sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He has given us this beautiful earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">And sent Jesus Christ to save us from our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">From this lesson we learn God's love for us and obedience of Mary and Joseph to the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">We also learn simplicity and holiness of their spiritual and earthly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Both of them obeyed God and fulfilled His desire and remained holy for rest of their life.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">But we in this earth commit sin and injustice, so he sent Jesus to save us from sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">And this has been possible through Joseph and Mary.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">They were loyal to the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We too have to be obedient to our parents and elders in all respect otherwise we cannot enter heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">How can we obey the Lord?</sent>
				<sent id ="48">We are obedient to God by being obedient to our parents and by being faithful to our religious teaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">He has given us our parents and elders to keep us on the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">They also love us and wish us well.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">As God loves us and wishes us well, if we follow the advice of our parents and elders?</sent>
				<sent id ="52">We are found to, prosper in our life and there will be peace in our family, community and the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Certainly you have heard the name of Mahathma Gandi, Have you not?</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Mahathma Gandi from his boyhood was very obedient to his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">That is why he is very famous in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Mohan was his nick name.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">His father was often sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">When Mohan was sixteen his father fell ill in bed, he has supposed to care for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">After his father was asleep at night, then he could also rest in peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">But he never got.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">After finishing all the works he used to go to school and prepare his lessons.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">And he spent rest of his time in taking care of his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">In the afternoon if his father would feel better, he would ask Mohan to go to play.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Mohan carried his father's blessing because of his love and care for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">He also earned God's blessing.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">This way he earned world wise fame by sacrificing his life for the motherland.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">He became the father of the nation of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">We should remember that we are to fulfill the desire of God and then only shall we be blessed.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">For that we must seek God's mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">b) In reality you respect your elders and take care of them when they are sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">If you commit any sin, confess it.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">c) You love your younger brothers and sisters and other schoolmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">d) Memorize : Lord's prayer, Hail Mary, Glory be and Angels, message of angels.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">(You can learn these prayers as taught by different churches.)</sent>
				<sent id ="75">We go to see that baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">We take some small presentation like garments, towels, toys etc. for the baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">And thus we accept him or her.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">We recognise him.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Later we celebrate his birthday too.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">In every country the government arranges the census of population for enumerating the exact number of people of its country.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Just like that some days before the birth of Jesus the Roman Emperor Augustus Ceaser ordered the census.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The first census took place during the time of King Quirinius in Syria.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Joseph was the descendant of David.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The birth place of David was in the town of Bethlehem in Judaea.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Joseph went to Bethlehem with his engaged wife Mary.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">At last he took shelter in a cowshed with Mary.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">And there near about at a.m Mary gave birth to Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Jesus was wrapped with a piece of cloth lying in a manger.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Thus our Lord Jesus Christ for our salvation was born as a poor in a cowshed in Bethlehem.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In that part of the country some shepherds were spending the night in the fields taking care of their flocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">An angel of the Lord appeared to them and the glory of the Lord shone over them.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">This very day in David's town your saviour is born - Chirst the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The angels left praising the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and saw the baby lying in the manger.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The shepherds went back singing praises to God for all they had heard and seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">All who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds said.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">How great is the God's love for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">We are sinners and not worthy to go to heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The Lord has sent Jesus Christ for us according to his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">And the shepherds had found Jesus the Lord in a cowshed in poorly clad.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">And the arrival of the saviour of the world was announced by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Jesus has taught us to worship only one God and to serve the mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">For this you need the formation of mind and conscience and earn education and experience.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">As God loves us, so we-have, to love each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">One who has love in his/her heart, he/she tries to remove sorrow and distress of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">He has no enemy and hatred.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">He can forgive others easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">One who has love he never talks bad of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">He always thinks that we are all children of one God.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">God is good, he loves all equally and does good to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This is why he has sent his only son to this earth as a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">It means he helps all, not taking any side of good or bad, pious or sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">At present there is one such lady in the world who loves all people deeply.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Do you know her? Who is she?</sent>
				<sent id ="115">She is Mother Teresa.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">She received Nobel prize for the great love for the distressed people.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">But she has spent that money received from Nobel prize for the distressed, poor and sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">She got that prize from God's plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">She said Life can not be complete beauty unless one loves the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">It mean we can have a completely beautiful life being kind to others and by loving them.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">By our good behavior we can do so much good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">a) Love all the people irrespective of their race, creed and caste.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">b) Forgive your enemies and wrong doers.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">c) keep your promise, if you make one.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">You have learnt that according to the words of the prophets, Jesus, the saviour was born in a cowshed.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He came to this earth to save the people from their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He has also shown the way of salvation in spiritual life.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">So the birth of Jesus the saviour is a great news for the whole mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">25th of December is the birthday of Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">On this day , through out the world all the Christians become jubilant in a great joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">They worship and offer sacrifices in befitting manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">They promise to discard all sinful thoughts and wrongdoing.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">When Jesus was born, a new star appeared in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Following that star the three wise men arrived at the court of King Herod.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">They were very eager to worship Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">They brought with them the gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh for Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">At their arrival to Jerusalem they asked the King Herod.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Where is the new king of the Jesus born?</sent>
				<sent id ="139">We saw his star and understood that he is born and we have come to worship him.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">When king Herod heard about this he was very upset.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">He said I am the king, how can another king be born in my kingdom?</sent>
				<sent id ="142">It can't be, Let's see.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">In the town of Bethlehem in Judaca they answered.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">For this what the prophet Micah said.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Then he sent them to Bethlehem with this instruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">So they left and on their way they saw the same star they had seen in the East.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">It went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">They went into the house and they saw the child with his mother Mary and St.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Joseph lying in the manger.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">They were very happy to see Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">They knelt down and worshipped him.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">They brought out their gifts of gold, Frankincense and myrrh and presented them to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Worthless, wicked people go around telling lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Because of this, disaster will strike them without warning and they will be fatally wounded.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Would you like to enjoy life?</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Do you want long life and happiness?</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Then hold back from speaking evil and from telling lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Turn away from evil and do good; strive for peace with all your heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Jealousy and anger destroy the peace of mind and greed for position, money and self-interest give birth to sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">They are the Source of evil and give bad advice to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">They are engaged in murdering, stealing, hyzaking, looting, abducting, drinking, addicting etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">There were two friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">They were very intimate.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">One is a son of a very rich Landlord and other a son of a poor farmer.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">In the office, because of his hard labour, honesty and modesty, everybody respected him.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Everywhere he had name and fame.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">As such the son of the Landlord was jealous of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">So he thought that he would invite his friend to go for hunting deer and he would kill him there.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He would tell everybody that he was killed by a tiger.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Being invited, his friend accepted the offer.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">They entered a deep forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The son of the farmer got frightened and just then a big tiger came there.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The son of the farmer ran away and came to a field.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He shouted for help and got many people there.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He was killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The people entered the forest with sticks and stuffs.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">They found the dead body and the gun and handed them over to the landlord.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Have you seen how the Lord saves an honest man and punish the wicked?</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Oh kind Father, you save me form the hands of jealousy, anger, greed and temptation.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">I should not be jealous or greedy at other's goods and prestige.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">I must not think bad of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">All the glory and praise to you oh Lord, Amen.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Recite these prayers together with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which can never be shaken, never be moved.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">If the Lord does not build the house, the work of the builders is useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">If the Lord does not protect the city, it is useless for the sentries to stand guard.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Then king Herod was afraid and thought his throne would be captured by Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Jealousy is one kind of big sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Man commits sin due to jealousy and anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">A jealous man can murder, hijack, fight and capture others property.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">But those who are blessed by God are saved even from the murderers.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Today we will know how Jesus was saved by God from Herod the conspirator.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">For the king Herod will be looking for the child to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">King Herod realized that the wise men of the East had tricked him.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">At this he was very angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">This led him to more sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">He ordered to kill all the boys ages between two and younger.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">So Joseph got up, took the child and his mother and returned to Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">How unlimited the power of God is.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">If he desires he can save all of us from the hand of unjust people.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">On the other hand those who obey the Lord and pray to Him enjoy peace in their mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">They are blessed by God for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">God has created us with a definite intention.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">He wants each one of us to do certain work.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">As He sent Jesus to save us.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">God rescued Jesus from king Herod, Pharisees and envious Israel's till he completed his mission.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Jesus although he was son of God, had to face much opposition to reach the intended goal.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The God was always with him and encouraged him.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">So we should think now what is intended for me by God to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">And to reach our goal we are face lots of troubles.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">We should not be afraid, we must stand against injustice and we should keep away from doing any injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">as our freedom fighters did.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">You have definitely heard about the war of liberation which took place in 1971.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">During that time our young men fought against the raiding army of Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Their only target was independence.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Again many had taken refuge in neighbouring India because they were helpless and afraid of being killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The freedom fighters earned independence after fighting long nine months.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Now we are the citizens of an independent country.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Our land is Independent Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">God definitely created those freedom fighters for that particular work.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">They too have made the country free with their hard work and bravery.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Those who had fled away in fear have come back and dedicated themselves for the development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Likewise you will have to work for the economic, social and political development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Then only can we preserve our independence.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">And for this you will have to be educated, wise and of good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">God is our only creator, protector and saviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">b) Jealousy, envy and anger open the door to injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">c) We can live in peace and security by complete dependence on God.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">d) Evil design and injustice by one do harm to the country, people and himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">We want to avoid quarrel and fighting, you lead us and be with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">In the name of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Everything of this earth is guided by rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Where there is no rule there is no discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">By the attraction of the moon and the sun, the high and low tides and the seasons are changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Thus the balance of the environment remains correct.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">From the very beginning some religious rules and practices are being observed.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Likewise, we offer some money at Sunday worships.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">We also take the new-born baby to the church and get him blessed by a priest.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The child is also made holy and Christian Religious Studies 61 member of the church by baptism.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">This is the duty and obligation of every Christian father and mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Besides we promise to offer sacrifices in the church for the welfare of children even for elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">It is not Only practiced in Christian religion but also done in Hindu and Muslim religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">This was done in case of Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">We are telling you today about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">At that time there was a man named Simeon living in Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">He was a good devout man and was waiting for, Israel to be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Led by the Spirit, Simeon went into the Temple;</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Now, Lord, you have your promise, and you may let your servant go in peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">With my own eyes I have seen your salvation, which you have prepared in the presence of all peoples.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">A light to reveal your will to the Gentiles and bring glory to your people Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The child's father and mother were amazed at the things Simeon said about the child :</sent>
				<sent id ="252">He will be a sign from God which many people will speak against and so reveal their secret thoughts.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">And sorrow, like a sharp sword will break your own heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">There was a very old prophetess a widow named Anna, daughters of Phanuel of the tribes of Asher.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">She had been married for only seven years and was now eighty four years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">She never left the Temple, day and night she worshipped God fasting and praying.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The child grew and became strong and he was obedient to his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Jesus Christ our Lord being the son God has come to this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Mary his mother and St.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Joseph followed the religious tradition of Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Like that we are to follow the law of our religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The laws of the state are related to religious precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">If we do not follow the state's law we are not good citizens.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">A state can not run without law.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">If every citizen follows the law and discipline of the country, then it will be happy and prosperous.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">If we follow the law of the religion we will have peace in our mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">And then one day will see the Lord and will gain the eternal peace in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">If the law of the states are followed then the people will live in peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">There will be no unrest, stealing, decoity and killing.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">As our country is facing with these problems it seems the era of barbarism is coming back.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Science has taught us to invent but not to destruct anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">We will use our knowledge, conscience and educations for the - good of our nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">a) One should thank God for His blessings.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">b) We should offer something as sacrifice to him as a token of gratitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">d) Every citizen must follow the law of a family, society and the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">e) We should engage our lives for the service of others as instructed by Jesus.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
