<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-christ-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.617</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">276</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3248</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1014</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t80">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Keep watch and pray that you will not fall into temptation.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Jesus knew how he will die.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">But he was worried to think about the pain of death as a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He knew that Judas would hand him over to his enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">After having supper he went to lonely place Gethsemane with his disciples to pray silently.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">He loved much the people of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">And he loved the disciples too.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">And he knew that Judas would hand him over to his enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Because as a human being he was ready to accept the pain of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">No one wants to be deprived of this fascination.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">We are redeemed by the death of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Similarly death of every man is the door to eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">So we should not fear the death.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">We are to pray like Jesus so that we can endure the intolerable pain of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">We should try to understand how Jesus prayed for the help from God to bear that pain of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The stream Kidron was in between Jerusalem and Jaitun Hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Gethsemane was on the other side of the stream Kidron to the west of Jaitun Hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Very often Jesus with his disciples used to go there to pray.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">That day after having the Passover meal he went there with his disciples to pray silently.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">At this moment an angel came down from heaven and encouraged him.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He returned to his disciples and found them asleep and he called them up and said to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">How is that, could not you watch with me even for one hour?</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Get up and pray so that you will not fall into temptation.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Kissing is the greatest sign of love and affection on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Judas handed Jesus over to his enemies by that sign.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Is it possible to endure this pain?</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Suppose you have a very close friend, you love him too much and trust him.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">If any time he betrays you then how will you feel?</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Your parents, elder brothers and sisters how much they love you and care for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Can you ever be ungrateful to them and do any harm to them?</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Will you spoil your life by being disobedient to them like Judas?</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Never do it.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Judas kissed Jesus and handed him over the enemies, but Jesus addressed him as his friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">That mean he pardoned all his faults.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">You too will pardon the faults of your friends even your enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">A life of prayer can give you strength and courage against all dangers.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It can save you from all evils.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">It helps your to endur any pain and trouble as Jesus did it.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">In pain and trouble his sweat became like drops of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">But through prayers to God, Jesus was strengthened so much he could even address Judas as friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Jesus Christ has taught his disciples and all of us this ideal of prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">One should not betray his friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">One should not keep distance when his friend is in distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The word judgement is much known to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">For a very big crime there is a judiciary department in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">There the judges handle the judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">They convict the accused person for a big crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Yes, the guilty person should be punished through judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">But sometimes it is found that an innocent person is convicted by severe punishment at the evidence of false witness.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Sometimes he is putt in jail for life-term or given capital punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Likewise, a false case was brought against our Lord Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">And Judas one of his disciples joined them.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">With his help they arrested Jesus from the garden Gethsemane.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">You have learnt it from your previous lesson.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">In this chapter you will learn how Jesus was judged by different persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Trial of Jesus Before the Priests and the Governor Those who arrested Jesus, they beat and mocked him.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">They spat on him, slapped on his cheek.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Then they blind folded him and asked him mocking Tell us who slapped you?</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Thus they accused Jesus and laughed at him and called him by name.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">When it was morning the elders, the chief priests and the leaders all got together in a council meeting.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">They had Jesus brought before them and asked him If you are that Christ then tell us.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">But from today you will see the Son of Man sitting on the right of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Then they all shouted together Are you then the Son of God? Jesus replied You yourselves have said it.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Then they said What more witnesses are required, we ourselves have heard what he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Then they took Jesus to Pilate for judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He tells the people not to pay taxes to the government and also says he is Christ, the King.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Then Pilat asked him Are you the king of the Jews?</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Jesus answered You yourself are saying it.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Hearing this Pilate said, Is this man a Galilian?</sent>
				<sent id ="70">On that very day Herod and Pilate became friends before this they had been enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Herod finding no fault against Jesus sent him to Pilate again.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">There is nothing this man has done to deserve death.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Pilate could understand that the people out of jealousy were claiming to put him to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Pilate understanding their ideas said, So I will have him whipped and let him go.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But the whole crowd cried out Kill him, set Barabbas free for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Because during that festival it was the practice to set someone free for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Barabbas had been put in prison for a riot that had taken place in the city and for murder.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Pilate tried to set Jesus free so he appealed to the crowd again.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">But they shouted back Crucify him, Crucify him.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Pilate said to them a third time.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But what crime has he committed?</sent>
				<sent id ="82">I can not find he has done anything to deserve death, I will have him whipped and set him free.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">But the unruly crowd shouted and wanted him to crucify Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Was it right to hand Jesus over for the people to crucify him?</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Did Pilate do justice to Jesus?</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Why didn't he do that?</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He was afraid of that.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Joy was very talented student.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">He was a son of very rich family.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">They had a big house in the town.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">His father was a renowned doctor.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">His father made him a doctor after spending lot of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">And he got a job in the Health Complex in a remote village.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">One day he was going to that village from the town.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Joy got down from his car and saw that the man was bleeding too much.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Joy thought if he would take him so far, the patient may die because of much bleeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">So he tried to stop the bleeding with his apparatus what he had with him, taking much care.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">But the bleeding did not stopped and the patient died after sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The man's wife could not accept it and she accused Dr. Joy for the death of her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Some educated and influential people also took side against him.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He was judged in the court.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He answered all the questions asked by the lawyer and told to truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The lawyer asked him why he didn't take the patient to hospital.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">He said I would have taken but before that I tried to stop the bleeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">But the judge accused him guilty too.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">He was termed as irresponsible and unskilled doctor and his certificate was cancelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In fact Dr. Joy did not want his death, he tried to save him.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">But the judgement went against him.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">That judgement was not correct because it was based of false witnesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">In reality we will see the same injustice is being done in our society and country.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Such injustice is being done to protect one's position.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">So he was sent to jail illegally.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Yet he protested against it.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">In respect to him we call him rebel poet.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">It-is necessary to have honesty and moral courage to protest against injustice, you can also earn these.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The elders and chief priest being jealous they tortured and insulted Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">They should not have done this.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">If they wished they could free Jesus from the hands of people but they did not do that.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">They remain guilty before God and mankind for ever in doing injustice to Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">When you grow up, you never do such injustice to anyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Never accuse the innocents.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">To do harm by giving false witness is unjust and sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">You must have all facts before you judge, someone may be guilty or not guilty.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">To give verdict against your conscience or out of fear of people is sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We, all the Christians, are well acquainted with the word Cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">We the followers of Christ, make ourselves known as Christians by the sign of cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Cross is the symbol of love of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Jesus Christ by his intolerable suffering on the cross showed his deep love for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He did not hesitate to accept death for the expiation of the sins of the sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This is why he said I have come to this world not for the righteous but for the sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">He offered his life on the cross to his beloved Father for the salvation of the sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">In our previous lesson we have learnt about the injustice done to Jesus by Pilate.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Pilate wanted to protect Jesus in many ways from the hand of unruly people.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">And the enemies of Jesus killed him illegally hanging him on a cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The enemies put a crown of thorns on his head because Jesus had said, yes, I am king.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Seeing Jesus carrying the cross and his intolerable suffering many people followed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Many of them were women.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">His suffering made them weep loud.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">But Jesus turned to them and said.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Women of Jerusalem, don't cry for me but for yourself and your children.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Two other men, both of them criminals were also led to be put to death with Jesus on the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Because in those days crucifixion was the most insulting and highest form of punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The soldiers led Jesus to the top of mount Calvary.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">There in the place called Skull, nailed Jesus hands and feet on the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Of the two criminals one was put the right and the other to the left of Jesus on the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The Crucified Jesus between two criminals.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">106 Christian Religious Studies Don't you fear God?</sent>
				<sent id ="148">We received the just sentence for what we did but he has done no wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">He then said to Jesus, Remember me Jesus when you come to your kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Jesus said to him, I promise you that today you will be with me in Paradise.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">And then Jesus cried out in a loud voice, Farther, in your hand, I place my spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">He said this and died.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It was then about the sixth hour and darkness fell over all the earth until the ninth hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">And the curtain hanging in the Temple was torn in two and there was an earthquake which cracked the stones.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">One of the soldiers with his spear pierced Jesus left chest and form there came out blood and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The meaning of the word cross is suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The sign of the cross or crucifying reminds us of the intolerable suffering of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">As we have built Shaheed Minar to commemorate the language myrters, through which we show our respect to the myrters.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Same way, we pay our respect to the death of Jesus by showing our respect to the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">We consider Good Friday as the day of Jesus death on the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Did Jesus deserve such an humiliating death on the cross?</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He loved the people with his whole heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">So as the sing of that love he accepted such a painful and humiliating death on the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">He committed no wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">But we commit so many sins and injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">So how much we should repent and beg pardon for sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Jesus the ideal of forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">In so much pain he begged pardon to heavenly Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">for us Father forgive them.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">On the other hand the priests and teachers of the law never thought about their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Jesus had no anger or jealousy or desire to take revenge on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">What a great self sacrifice and ideal of forgiveness he left for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">By this word of Jesus his complete obedience to the Father is expressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He fulfilled all the responsibilities given by the Father and gave back everything to Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Lord Jesus for our sins accepted a humiliating death on the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Like that you may have read about the great Khudiram in history.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">He wanted to save IndioPak- subcontinent from the regime of the English.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">For this he led many movements in a legal way.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">But when the British rulers came to know about it, they killed him by hanging.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">He gave his life for the freedom of people of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He gave the people a sense of freedom.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Later through the sacrifice of many other patriots we are a free nation today.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Have you ever thought about it?</sent>
				<sent id ="184">You should not think about yourself only.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Jesus is the ideal man of forgiveness and love.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">We are to follow his ideal This earth is very difficult place.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">We are to face many wrong doing and injustice in our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">We will have to pray to the Lord, our God, for our enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">God created us to work for Him by serving the people and country.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">He has given us each a particular job to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">We will have to do that the best we can.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It is not fair if you don't study.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">You will have to be well educated.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">If all of you are well educated and have good character then the country and the nation will prosper.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Then only our country will be considered a developed country.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Christ is the ideal of forgiveness, we are to follow him.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">We are to love each other, if anybody begs pardon, we are to forgive him.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">We must not think revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">When you realize your own fault, beg pardon immediately and always keep away from doing wrong and injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">We pray to you for this help, in the name of the crucified Jesus, Amen.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Let us sing: Jesus fourteen station on the way of the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The victory of Jesus after death of resurrection of Jesus is a great miracle.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">It has never happened before in the world and will never happen again.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">It happened only in Jesus life.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">We have seen how great men were born in this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">They died but none of them rose up to life, again.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Because none of them had divine power.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">But Jesus was both man and God.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Through this resurrection he proved his divinity.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Before death, Jesus told his disciples about his resurrection.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">After some days you will not see me, again after some days you will see me.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">(John 16 : 16) They will mock him, insult him and spit on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">They will whip him and kill him, but three days later he will rise to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">By this resurrection Jesus proved that he was truthful and true God.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He accepted death on his own will according to his own word he raised himself in body and soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">This resurrection is the root foundation of the Christian church or the people in Christian faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Jesus died on the cross after enduring the intolerable pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">That days was Friday and it was three o'clock in the afternoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The day of his death is known to as Good Friday.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">He was a member of the Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">But he had complete faith in Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Pilate was surprised to know that Jesus died so soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">There was another admirer of Jesus named Necodim another member of the Council like Joseph.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">He joined Joseph.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">He bought about 50 seers of perfume to pour on the dead body of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">They had a great respect for Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">And they covered the entrance of the tomb with a large and very heavy stone.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">So Pilate ordered the soldiers to guard the tomb.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">He said You arrange guard as you want.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">They went there and sealed the entrance of the tomb and employed some soldiers there.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">But what Jesus had said must come true; he is Almighty God.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Who has that power to keep him inside the tomb?</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Jesus came out from the tomb on Sunday, the first day of the week.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">At that time all on a sudden, there was an earthquake.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">An angel removed that heavy stone from the entrance of the tomb and sat on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">His dress was milky white and his body was as bright as lightning.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Having observed all these the guards were at a fix in fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">They ran to the leaders of the Jews and explained everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">They bribed those guards giving much money and asked them to keep silent about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">And if the Governor comes to know this, you will not be spared.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">So the guards told lies as advised by the leaders.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">They did not tell what really happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">But they secretly accepted Jesus as Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">And by this resurrection Jesus proved that he is the Lord, true and Almighty, his teachings are absolutely true.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Early on Sunday morning, while it was still dark.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Mary Magdalene and other two women went to the tomb with some perfumes.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">They found the stone , removed from the entrance.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">An angel was sitting on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">They were frightened.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The angel said Don't be afraid, I know you are looking for the crucified Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">He is not here.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">He has risen.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Then they went running to Simon, Peter and other disciples and told them about his resurrection.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">They also came running to the tomb but they did not find him there.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">They also found the dresses and scarf of Jesus left there.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">They said to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Jesus said Mary.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">She could recognise his voice and said Rabboni meaning teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">So delighted Mary went running to the disciples and told them that she saw the risen Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Another day when the disciples were gathered together behind locked doors because they were afraid of the Jewish authorities.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Then Jesus came and stood among them Peace be with you he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Jesus ascension to Heaven The last miracle of Jesus life is his ascension to heaven physically.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">And it was his ascension to heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">One day Jesus went to mount Olivet in Jerusalem with his eleven disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The disciples once again showed their respect falling on his feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Jesus said to them Go to the whole world and preach my words.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Those who will believe and be baptized will receive eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The precepts and teachings have given you, teach the same to people of all nations, so all can be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">And the Holy spirit that will be sent to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">He will give you the wisdom, conscience and necessary strength, courage and knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Then Jesus for the last time blessed the disciples and began to ascend to heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">A piece of white cloud came and covered him.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Jesus went to heaven and the disciples saw him no more.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">He will come again to this earth on the last day to Judge all the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Oh Father, the God, you bless us so that we can remain faithful to your teachings and ideals.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">All praises and thanks be to you, Amen.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
