<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-christ-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.457</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">265</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2907</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">990</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t73">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">So God the Father had driven them out from Eden and sent them to this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Here they spent their lives in hard work and in much distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">In other word, they lost the heavenly blessings they enjoyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">We know this too that sin means to disobey the order of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">We do not have any relation with God when, disobey the order of God or commit sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">This displeases God very much and disharmony besets us.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The only way to return to father- son good relationship is by sorrow, repentance or penance for our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">If we stay away from doing any evil we will be saved from the sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">And our father children relationship will remain intact.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">There will be no disharmony in our life and our mind will be in peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Remember it too: We commit sin in three ways, such as in thought, 2. in deeds and by omitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Sins in deeds are also known as sin of commission.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">It becomes sins of omission or neglect.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Now it should be clear enough about sin and its consequences.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Remember with this : There are some moral and some supernatural or spiritual virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">If we do not exercise or use these virtues in our life, we will fall in sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">And the supernatural virtues are -to have faith hope in God and love for God.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">If you have these virtues then you will not commit sin and so you will not fall.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">You will enjoy endless peace and happiness in your life.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">And you will be able to do good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">If a man wins the whole world but looses his soul it is of no use.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">You have heard many times the story of Cain and Abel from the Holy Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">I am telling you the story again, listen to it carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Adam and Eve became disobedient to God and at the temptation of Satan ate the fruit of the forbidden tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">God had driven them out from the garden Eden that is from heaven and sent them to the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">It was their downfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">They started family life on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">On earth, they were exposed to good and evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Adam and Eve had two sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Abel was elder and Cain younger.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Cain was jealous and spiteful, but Abel was simple, gentle, plain living and of good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Cain used to till the land and Abel used to keep sheep in the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Both of them believed in offering sacrifices to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">But Cain would never offer his sacrifices to God honestly and with complete faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He was insincere and had some doubts in his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">One day Cain offered crops of his field to God and Abel offered the best lamb of his flock.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">God accepted the offering of the honest and holy mind of Abel and blessed him much.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">But the offering of Cain was not accepted.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Because he was envious, insincere and had doubts in his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">When God did not accept the offering of Cain, he became more furious and his pride, anger etc. engulfed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">He became malicious to his brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Then the Lord asked to Cain Why are you so angry?</sent>
				<sent id ="43">But Cain did not pay any attention to His word.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">One day he took his brother Abel to a far away field with evil intention and killed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Then the Lord asked Cain Where is your brother?</sent>
				<sent id ="46">I do not know.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Am I supposed to take care of my brother?</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Lord said I know what you have done.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Look, the blood of your brother is crying out to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The soil that sucked your brother's blood is under curse.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">That soil will not produce crops even when you try hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">You will be a homeless wandered on earth, you will never have peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Then Cain said This punishment is too hard for me to bear my Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">And now anyone who finds me as my brothers killer will kill me.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">But the Lord said, No, if anyone does so, then the revenge will be seven times upon him.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Even today many people pray meditate, worship, give alms and makes Pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">To nourish pride, greed, malice, anger, revenge in mind and to express them are sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">These lead to more serious new wrongdoing and sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In order to free ourselves from these we need to be self-restraint, simple, humble, righteous and follow our conscience.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">We should all exercise these virtues always.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Oh kind Father the Lord, you protect me from the sins of malice, anger, revenge, pride and violence.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">You make me perfect and holy in mind so that I can lead an honest, simple and holy life.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">To have knowledge, you must first have reverence for the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Stupid people have no respect for wisdom and refuse to learn.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">It is the Lord who gives wisdom, from him come knowledge and understanding.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He provides help and protection for righteous, honest men.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Behold this dreamer cometh, let us slay him.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">In the beginning in this earth there was nothing but God.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">God created all of this beautiful earth with only one word.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Man is the best creature of His creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">He first created Adam then Eve as his partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">He created man so that man loves him and keeps the relation with him and be obedient to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">But man (Adam and Eve) being disobedient was driven out from Eden and sent to this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">They lived together as husband and wife from the beginning.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Thus began the family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">We all live together with parents as well as brother and sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Father and mother love and extend affection to all of their children.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">But for some reasons they cannot love all children equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">They love some more than the others.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">We also cannot love all our brothers and sisters always.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">We will hear about a family of this kind in the Bible -it is Jacob's family.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The old Jacob had twelve sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Joseph was his son of old age.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">So he loved Joseph a little more than the others.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">For this reasons other brothers were jealous of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Their jealousy increased when they found that their father made Joseph a beautiful shirt.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Moreover, one day the boy Joseph saw a dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">He told his brothers about the dream Listen my dear brothers, I had a dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The dream is like this.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">We were binding sheaves in the field and behold my sheaf stood up and yours bowed down to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">What may be the meaning of this dream?</sent>
				<sent id ="92">His brothers understanding the meaning of that dream became more jealous of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">After some day Joseph had another dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">This time also he disclosed his dream to his father and his brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">I saw the sun, the moon and eleven stars bowing down to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">His father rebuked him but the affectionate father Jacob forgot it.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">But his elder brothers could never forget it.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">They were waiting for an opportunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">One day his brothers went to, a far away field to graze the flock.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Jacob sent Joseph to the field to bring news of his brother and the flock.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">When Joseph was still at a distance his brothers saw him coming, they plotted to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">They said Here comes that dreamer, come on let's kill him and throw his body into a dry well.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">We can say to our father that a wild animal killed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">You live in a family with your parents, brothers and sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">And you have your neighbors and playmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">You play with them together.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Sometimes you quarrel and fight with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">You study in school and you have schoolmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">In the same class you certainly do not have the same results.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">This is why some one stands first, some one-second, some one third etc. Someone perhaps even fails.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Parents at home like some one who does not quarrel or fight.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Elders in the village love them who behave well and are gentle.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Schoolteacher loves some one who is good in studies and well behaved.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Even if they are not good in studies teacher love them, encourage them, advice and help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Here is a story for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Shally and Rebeca read in the same class.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Shally is very good in studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">She stands first in the class.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">But Rebeca is not good at all in studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">She plays truant in class works as well as home-works.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">She is often scolded by her teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">She cannot make good results in the class.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Shally tries to make her understand but she does not care.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Schoolteachers love Shally very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">So Rebeca is very jealous of her.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">By this time annual examination is very near.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Rebeca knows that the notes of Shally are very good.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">So she planned to make Shally fool.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Shally could not find her notes when she sat for studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Next day she went to school and informed everybody about her stolen notes.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">But nobody could say anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">And it was not possible to prepare the notes again to study because she had not enough time.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Rebeca was very happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Examination was over.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Result was out after someday and it was found that Shally stood first again.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">And Rebeca failed again.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Take this your notes.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Hearing this the Headmistress prepared a T.C. for Rebeca.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Shally felt pity for Rebeca and she requested the Headmistress not to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The Headmistress was happy to see kindness in Shally.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">So she allowed Rebeca again to read in the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Was it right for Rebeca to do what she did?</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Being jealous she had stolen the notes of Shally.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">But Shally could stand first by hard labour and with the blessing of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">So it is not fair to be jealous of others and to do harm to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">God does not tolerate it.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">And no one can shine or be successful by stealing.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Many people of course stood against it but they were never successful.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">There are many such instances in the Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Was it right for Joseph's brothers to make plan for killing of their younger brother?</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Should we do so ever like them or like Rebeca?</sent>
				<sent id ="152">No, it is wrong and sinful.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Planning of committing sin makes man unrest.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Sin and wrong doing open up the door for many more sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">It calls in many evils for oneself, family, society and the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">We all the brothers and sisters will live together in peace, forgetting the jealousy.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Everybody will come forward to help at the danger of another.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">We will help our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Thus each of us will be able to form a family and society of peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">They were jealous of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Re had no such moral courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">So he committed more sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Therefore one who commits injustice and one who tolerates injustice both of them are equally guilty.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Now we shall know that the brothers of Joseph committed sin against God by doing wrong against their brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Joseph's brothers plotted to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Joseph came to them and his brothers forcibly took off the beautiful shirt given by his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">They threw, him into a deep well.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Since the well had no water so Joseph did not die.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">But it was so deep that it was not possible for Joseph to come out form it.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The cruel brothers had no mercy for their younger brother, they paid no attention to his crying and screaming.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">They were enjoying the food Joseph had brought from home.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">At this time they saw a group of Jewish traders coming.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Their camels were loaded with spices and resins.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">They were going to Egypt to sell their valuable merchandise.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Joseph's brother then took him out from the well and sold him to those traders at twenty coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The traders took him to Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">When all these happened Ruben was not there.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He returned and went to the well but he did not find Joseph there.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He felt sorry for his brother yet he did not have courage to protest against the injustice of his brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Afterwards they slaughtered a goat and stained that beautiful shirt of Joseph with its blood and went home.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">They said to their father, a wild animal has killed our dear brother Joseph.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">We have found this shirt stained with blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The father could recognize the shirt of his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">He believed that some wild animals killed Joseph.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">He was shocked with the sad news of his son's death and put on sackcloth to mourn the death.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He gave up taking food and mourned for long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Nothing could comfort him.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">He was almost dying crying and mourning for his son Joseph.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Meanwhile the traders took Joseph to Egypt and sold him to a guard, one of king Pharaoh officer.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">His name was Potiphar.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Joseph remained as a slave of the officer for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">He did not have any sympathy from any one.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">So the depended on God as he served his master.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Do you have any jealousy for your brothers and sisters?</sent>
				<sent id ="195">If you have, discard it from your heart because to be jealous is sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">If you nurture jealousy in your mind, someday it will be cause of big crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">This is why we shall refrain from becoming jealous.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Don't do it, this is wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Who is this inner voice?</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Do you know?</sent>
				<sent id ="201">It is our conscience.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Conscience is ability to judge between good and bad- it is given by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">He guides us through conscience.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">So conscience is our best judge and our real guide.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">It is our friend and adviser in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Didn't the conscience of Joseph's brothers try to stop them to do injustice to him?</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Sure it did.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">But they did not care.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">So they threw him into the well first, then they took him out again and sold him to the traders.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Imagine what a terrible crime they had committed against their own brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">If anybody does not follow the instruction of his conscience he easily commits sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Remember, what ever we do conscience is its witness.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Like true friend it makes us aware of our faults.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">When we plan to do anything wrong it warns us.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">When we conceal our crimes it tell us.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It surely will be revealed someday.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">If we fallow our conscience we will be saved from doing any wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">God hates those who kill the innocent and those who conspire wrong doing.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">We have also known from the first chapter that God has created us with much love and care.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">In other words, our body and mind everything is created by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">And God created everything holy.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">And what God created as holy, we cannot make it unholy.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">We have no right to do it.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">But in the modern world people forget from where they have come, who created them.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">How holy he is.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Many do not want to know it and many do not believe even when they know it.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">As a result, the restless in the world, its problems and frustrations easily influence them.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Thus our youths are specially influenced physically and mentally.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">They have no peace of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">They take wrong step looking for peace and joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">They develop many bad habits among which smoking and drug addiction are very dangerous and damaging.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Such habits defile a human person created in God's image.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Gradually they lead them astray.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Those who have money spend it after drugs, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Many become slaves of such habits because of their parents and failures in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">In such habits they seek peace and joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">For whatever reasons, smoking and drug addiction cannot bring about any good results.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">They destroy a human person.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Therefore, remember God created man holy with love and care.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">We have no right to defile it by bad habits or drug addiction.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">It will be sin before God.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">You do not belong to yourselves but to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Instead, be holy in all that you do, just as God who called you is holy.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Do not get drunk with wine, which will only ruin you; instead, be filled with the Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Drinking too much makes you loud and foolish.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">It's stupid to get drunk .</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The next morning you will feel as if you had been bitten by a poisonous snake .</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Therefore whatever among you is purely worldly, get rid off;</sent>
				<sent id ="249">get rid off adultery, impurity, desire for flesh, impure desire and greed which are like idolatry.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">God's wrath comes down for such sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Father, I feel repentant when I realize I have planted the seeds of suffering and anxiety all around me.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">I remember my worried parents-- they were always apprehensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">They always thought, Where is our son now?</sent>
				<sent id ="254">In what condition will our son return?</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Oh father, many times I asked this question to myself that why do have to behave like this?</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Was it my fate that I have become a drug addict?</sent>
				<sent id ="257">But it is now time of resurrection for me.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Following a definite timetable everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Daily prayer, Bible reading and to participate in Church's worship and other activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">To spend enough time daily in reading textbooks and other good books.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">To participate in regular sports and exercises or physical works.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">To be obedient to parents and guardians.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">To avoid bad companion and gang members, but to participate in cultural activities or to have hobbies.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Also to watch educational program on TV.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Happy are the pure in heart; they will see God.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
