<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-genSci-11</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.686</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">209</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2216</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">688</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t83">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Work, power, energy these words we always use in our daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">But the general and scientific meanings of these words are not always the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Work, power and energy have special meanings in the language of science.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">You take a book from the table and lift it up on your head.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">What work do you have to do for this?</sent>
				<sent id ="6">You have to apply a force against the weight of the book.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Here there are two things that need to be noticed.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Firstly force and secondly motion of the body or displacement.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">When the body changes its position on being in motion by application of force, only then work is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">You push a wall with all your strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The wall does not move even a bit.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Have you done any work?</sent>
				<sent id ="13">No, because although force has been applied there is no displacement.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">A cart driver drives his cart.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">He does work.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Because, as a result of application of force, the cart moves from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Therefore, there is displacement of the cart.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">A porter lifts up a load from the ground to his head.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">He does some work.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">But when he remains standing with the load on his head, no work is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">So, the displacement of a body from one place to another, with the application of force is called work.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The product of force and displacement measures amount of work done.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Suppose, to lift up your book, a force of 10 Newton need to be applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">You have raised the book up through a distance of 1 metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">What is power?</sent>
				<sent id ="26">What is the unit of power?</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Two men are lifting up bricks from the same place and loading a truck.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">One man is lifting 6 bricks in a minute, and the other man is lifting 12 bricks in a minute.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Whose power is greater?</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Power of the second man is greater.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Because he is working twice the work of the other man in the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">In other words one, who works quicker, has a greater power.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">How quickly a work can be done, can be understood from power.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">In a word, work done in unit time is called power.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Unit of work is joule and unit of time is second.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">So unit of power is joule per second.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Name of this unit of power is watt.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">As this unit of power is rather small, sometimes kilowatt is used as practical unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">So, the power of the second man is twice the power of the first man.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Power does not depend upon total amount of work, but it depends upon the time in which it is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">What is energy?</sent>
				<sent id ="42">What is the unit of energy?</sent>
				<sent id ="43">You and one of your friends started to run together.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Your friend sat down after he had run one kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He was unable to run further.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">You also sat down after you had run one kilometre further.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Who is more powerful?</sent>
				<sent id ="48">You will surely say, I am.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">You are right.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">But how is it so?</sent>
				<sent id ="51">You both have done work during running.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Your friend could not run further after he had run one kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">That means he has lost his capacity for doing work.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">But your capacity still remained.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Hence you could run one kilometre further.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">But after that your capacity was also exhausted.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">This capacity for doing work is called energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Therefore energy is necessary for doing work.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The more the energy a person has, the more the amount of work he can perform.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">None can do any work without energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">A man or a machine can perform that amount of work, which his energy permits.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Hence energy is measured by work.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">So unit of work is the unit of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Therefore unit of energy is also joule.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">We cannot live even a moment without energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">In fact, this universe also cannot survive without energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Nothing is static in the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The earth revolves round the sun, and the moon revolves round the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Always something or the other is happening, therefore, work is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">For performing any work you may think, energy is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">We get our energy from food.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">This is one kind of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Motorcar or train move with another kind of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Again lamp burns, fan rotates or mills, factories run with another kind of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Energy has many forms like this and each of the forms has a particular name.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Movement means work.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Therefore, any moving body has capacity for doing work.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">That is to say, they have energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">You are walking, a car is moving, you or the car has a kind of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">This energy is called kinetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Because, capacity for doing work has developed due to motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Therefore, capacity for doing work is generated by a moving body by virtue of motion is called kinetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">You lift up a brick from the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">You do some work.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Has the brick any energy while you hold it up?</sent>
				<sent id ="86">If there is no energy how this work can be performed?</sent>
				<sent id ="87">So while you are holding up the brick, although it has no motion, it possesses a kind of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">This energy is called potential energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Therefore, energy that is generated by a body by virtue of its special position or configuration is called potential energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">You may have plucked mangoes or guavas or hunted birds by a catapult.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">As soon as you release the rubber band, the stone shoots out with a tremendous speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">These occur for kinetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">These kinetic energy and potential energy are together called mechanical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Energy stored in food or fuel is called chemical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">We get energy from food.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Petrol, gas, wood, coal as they all have chemical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The batteries that you use in the torch and radio also have chemical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Energy used in cooking, driving of motorcars or railway engines is called heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This energy is obtained by burning coal, gas, wood, petrol or diesel.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Again heat comes directly from the sun also.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">This heat energy keeps the earth warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">No animal or tree can survive without heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Another form of energy is magnetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">A magnet attracts articles made of iron with this energy from a distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">We will discuss about the magnetic energy in the next chapter.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The other energy, which comes along with heat energy from the sun directly, is light energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">We could not see anything in absence of light energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">While you speak, sing or play on a flute, you generate a kind of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">This is called sound energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">We can hear the voice of one another with the help of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Sound energy is used in telephone, radio and television.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The vibration of substances produces sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">A very well known and useful form of energy is electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">We light lamp, turn the fan on, run mills and factories by electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Trains are also run by electrical energy in many countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Electrical energy can be transmitted from one place to another with the help of wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Energy received from the sun in the form of heat and light is called solar energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">In fact the sun is one of the main sources of our energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">We use solar energy for drying of clothes, jute and paddy everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Energy generated by the flow of air is called wind energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Boats with lifted sails move with help of air energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Windmills are run by the use of air energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">These mills produce electricity and also grind wheat, maize, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">You know that matter is composed of atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The inner content of this atom is bound together by a very powerful force.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">If this binding can be broken by any means, then a very powerful energy called atomic energy is obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">This energy can be transformed into electrical energy and is used in our work.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">It can also be used for destruction of world by making atom bomb.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">When using some energy one performs some work, then what does happen to that energy?</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Is that energy destroyed?</sent>
				<sent id ="131">No energy is neither lost nor destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">It is only transformed from one form into another.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">You rub your palms several times by pressing them together.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">You will observe that your hands become warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">You will also hear sound during rubbing.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Rubbing of palms is a kind of work.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">For this you have to use your muscle energy or mechanical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">This energy you have received from the chemical energy of your food.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Many examples can be cited in respect of such transformation of energy from one form into another.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">When coal or oil burns, its chemical energy is transformed into heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">This heat energy is transformed into mechanical energy while trains or motorcars run.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Electrical energy can again be generated from heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">When we light an electric lamp, electrical energy is then transformed into light energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">When an artist sings at a radio station, sound energy is transformed into electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">When you listen to that song in your radio, that electrical energy is further transformed into sound energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Is some energy consumed during its transformation from one form into another?</sent>
				<sent id ="147">No, though it may appear surprising, energy is neither lost nor is destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Total amount of energy before and after transformation remains the same in one form or the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In fact, the scientists have shown that total amount of energy in this universe is constant.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">No more amount of energy than this can be created also.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Amount of energy that remains cannot be destroyed also.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Only it can be transformed from one form into another form, or into more than one form.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">This is called conservation of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">In brief, we can state the principle of conservation of energy in this way:</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The sum total of the amount of energy in the universe is constant and unchangeable.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Where do we get energy?</sent>
				<sent id ="157">How essential the energy is!</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Now where do we get this energy?</sent>
				<sent id ="159">You or any man receives his energy from food.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Energy, which is needed for the mills and factories or vehicles, comes from fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Then where do these foods or fuels come from?</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Source of most of energy of the earth is the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Energy comes in the form of light and heat from the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">This light of the sun is utilized for production of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Again by burning this coal, oil or gas most of the electrical energy is being produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Energy is also obtained from air.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The power of air can be understood during cyclone.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Energy of air can uproot trees and houses and blow them all away.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Air energy actually causes destruction during storms, and it is not utilized in any work.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">But during other times air energy can be utilized.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Boats with lifted sails move with the help of air energy, with the lifted sails.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Fan can be rotated by air, which in turn can rotate grindstones for crushing rice, or wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The name of this machine or mill is windmill.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The windmills can also generate electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Burning coal or oil can generate electricity more easily and cheaply.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Hence windmills are not used as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Another main source of energy is water.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Water current can also be utilized to rotate fan or wheel.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Water can be increased to a great extent by constructing dams in the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Water rushes out downward with a tremendous speed when gates of the dam are opened.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Electricity can be generated from this.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Electricity generated in this way is called hydroelectricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">In Bangladesh, there is a hydroelectric generation centre at Kaptai, in the Chittagong Hill Tracts.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">You have learnt that we get energy from coal, oil, gas, sun, water or air.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The amount of coal, oil, gas burnt to generate energy is spent away.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">These cannot be used again.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The amount of these fuel deposits in the world is not unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Perhaps one day these deposits will be exhausted altogether due to the continuous use.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Coal, oil or gas is called sources of non-renewable energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">On the other hand, rays of the sun, air or water are unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">They can be used again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">These are called sources of renewable energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Ocean-current and tides can also be used as sources of renewable energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Main source of energy is the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Other sources of energy are: coal, gas, oil or petrol, water and air.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Sun, water and air are sources of renewable energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Coal, gas and oil are sources of non-renewable energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Till now most of the energy is generated in the world from non-renewable sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Because it is easy and can be done with less expense.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Demand of energy is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">For this reason, coal, oil and gas deposit are being quickly exhausted.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Perhaps energy, in future, will be obtained from renewable sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">But none can say in how many days that will be possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">For this reason we must be careful and should not waste energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Hardly there is any coal or oil in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">There is some gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">This gas is used in many of your houses for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">You must see that gas is not wasted by burning gas-ovens without any purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">You will not keep electric lamps lighted or put electric fans on unnecessarily.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
