<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-genSci-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.022</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">224</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2090</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">845</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t99">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The world of Biology includes plant and animal kingdoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">According to the botanists at present there are about four and a half lakh plants in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">You know that some plants produce flower while others do not.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Some plants are very big and some are small.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Few others are so small that they are not visible without a microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Mango, Black berry, Jack fruit etc. have root, stem, branches leaves, flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">There are plants that have no root, stem and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">These plants do not bear flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">We take Rice, Wheat, Pulses, Brinjal, Cabbage etc. as our food.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">We get fibre from Jute, Cotton etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Clothes are made from these fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">We make furniture and houses by using these timbers.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Arjun, Sacred basil (Tulshi), Akanda, Thankuni, Asparagus, Malabar nut (Bashak).</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Create (Kalomegh) are medicinal plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">We get life saving drugs also from some of the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">If we want to use the plants for the benefit of the humanity we must get perfect knowledge about plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">To know about all types of plants we are to follow a process.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The process is known as classification.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Plant kingdom is very vast and full of variety and diversity.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Every individual plant is different from the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">It is not possible to know every thing of every plant individually.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Some plants are used as medicine, while some are used as manure for the crop field.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">There are plants which are helpful for fish culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">It is easier for some plants to produce improved variety.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Few plants can grow in dry condition while others require saline water.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Few plants grow faster than the others.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">There are plants which are suitable for plantation in the forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Scientist proposed a name for every plant known and divided them into different groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Now let us discuss the classification of plants based on flowering ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">You have learnt that few plants bear flowers and fruits while others bear no flower or fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Based on flowering ability, plant scientists divided plant kingdom into two groups:1) Cryptogams (nonflowering plants) and 2) Phanerogams (flowering plants).</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Plants who never bear flowers are grouped in one subkingdom, Cryptogams.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">These plants reproduce by forming spores.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Plants of this group are microscopic.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Some of them are so small that one needs an electron microscope to see them.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">They are usually non- green heterophytes.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Body is simple and composed of primitive type of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Virus, bacteria etc are included in this group.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">They are responsible for causing most of the diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">It is a group of plants whose body is not divisible into root, stem and leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">They are unicellular or multicellular.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They grow in rivers, ditches, drains, damp or wet soil, stagnant water etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Algae need sun light to survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Spirogyra and Chlorella are examples of two green algae.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">2) Fungi: Thallophytes without chlorophyll are called fungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">They cannot manufacture their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">They grow on rotten things and in damp places.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Bread when left for few days, often show some white cottony growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">It is a kind of fungus known as mould or Mucor.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Penicillin, a life saving drug is prepared from a fungus, calls Penicillium.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">c) Bryophyta: Bryophytes have stems and leaves but no roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">They can manufacture their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">They grow on damp soil and brick walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Riccia, Marchantia, Moss are few examples of Bryophytic plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">d) Pteridophyta: Pteridophyta are the most advanced type of Cryptogamic (non flowering), plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Its distribution is world wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">They grow profusely near houses on damp or wet soil or walls of old buildings.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">It is popularly known as fern plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Dryopteris and Pteris are most common ferns found in every where.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">It can manufacture its own food because it contains chlorophylls.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Ferns are planted in earthen pots as ornamental plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Dryopteris is taken as vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Phanerogams or flowering plants Plants bearing flowers and fruits are grouped as phanerogams or flowering plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Usually they reproduce by producing seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Mango, Litchi, Jackfruits etc are examples of Phanerogamic plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">There are plants where ovary is absent.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Here fruits are not formed, so seeds remain open.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">These plants have ovary.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">A mature ovary forms a fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Seeds are borne within the fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">So seeds are covered.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Plant with seeds borne inside fruit are called angiosperm plants; such as Litchi, Mango, Guava etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Venation is parallel.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Stigma is feather like and stems mostly unbranched.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Food, sugar, perfume and antiseptic medicines are produced from monocotyledonous plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Plants having two cotyledons in their seeds are called Dicotyledo- nous plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Stems are branched, venation of leaves is reticulate or net like.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Mango, jackfruit, mustard, gram, jute, pea nut, sesame are few examples of Dicotyledonous plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Cabbage, cauliflower, turnip, radish etc. are good vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">All pulses are Dicotyledonous plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Stems and branches of mango, jackfruit etc. are hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Why it is so?</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Because they contain wood inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">What about Basella (puin), bottle gourd or gourd?</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Are the stems of these plants strong?</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Yes, they do not contain wood inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Mango and jackfruit plants have distinet main stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">It is erect, thick and woody.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">It bears the weight of branches, leaves, flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Do plants like rose, lemon and gardenia have distinct main stems?</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Herbs: These plants are small with soft stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Examples are gram, mustard, radish etc. Shrubs: These are medium sized plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The production of branches starts from near soil level.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">So the main stem cannot be identified.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Stem and branches are woody and hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Rose, Lemon, Gardenia etc. are examples of shrubs.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Trees: These are medium to large plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Their main stem is very much distinct.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">It is called stump.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The main stem bears branches and leaves Examples are Mango, Jackfruit, Teak, mahogany etc. Observe few plants around you.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Now write down their names and note nature of their stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Try to separate three categories of plants into herbs, Shrubs and trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">You might have observed that few plants grow rapidly, produce seeds and die within a short period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">While other plants live for a very long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">In cold countries radish, cauliflower etc. are biennial plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">3) Perennial Plants: These plants live for more than two years.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Zinger, turmeric, doob grass etc. are some perennial plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">It may be mentioned here that all shrubs and trees are perennial in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Classification of plants based on mode of nutrition We know that most plants are autophytes.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It means that they can manufacture their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">But there are plants who cannot manufacture their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">They are heterophytes.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Autophytes: Usually these are green plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">These plants contain chlorophylls.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">So they can manufacture their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">This food is carbohydrate or sugar.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">A portion of this is used by the plants for their own purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Rest portion is left for man, other animals and heterophytic plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Heterophytes: Non green plants cannot manufacture their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">So they are dependent on other plants for food.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">They are called heterophytes.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">a) Parasites: These plants are not green and cannot prepare their own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The plants live on or inside other organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">They collect food from the host organism by various mechanisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">They sometimes develop special sucking roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">They sometimes cause diseases of the host plant or animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Black band disease of jute, late blight of potato and blast disease of rice are caused by parasitic fungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">b) Saprophytes: These are plants that collect food from dead remains of plants and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">These are saprophyhtes.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Have you seen white powdery things on rotten bread?</sent>
				<sent id ="131">These white dot like things soon turn black.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">It is a type of fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Mucor is a saprophytic plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Saprophytes decompose dead remain of plant and animal and mix it up with soil as organic matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">This process is of great help to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">They act as natural scavengers.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">There are many saprophytes around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">But we do not recognize them as plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Yeast, mushroom, Penicillium etc. are examples of saprophytes.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Some of you must have heard about yeasts which are used in bakery.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">It is a fungus (Plural-fungi) and saprophyte.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">They release carbon dioxide during respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">This carbon dioxide is used in bread for raising of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">This plants can ferment alcohol from sugar.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">It is very rich in vitamin ?B?.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">So they are valued as good food.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Yeasts are used in making bread and biscuits, wine and medicines.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Yeast is a group of unicellular plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Its cells may be arranged in a line.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Thus it forms a filament or band like structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Each cell produce buds.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">These buds when get separated, new yeast plant is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It is a process of reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Yeast cells may divide by direct cell division.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Each cell become separate yeast plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">It is also a process of reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Now mushroom is cultivated for human consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Some people eat mushroom by choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">You must not take naturally growing mushrooms from bushes or fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Few mushrooms are very poisonous.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Mushrooms are fungal plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Small umbrella like fleshy part is the fruit body of the fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Small powdery spores are produced inside the fruit body.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The body of this fungus is like a fine thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">This thread like body remains beneath the growing soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The fruit body comes out above the ground and is visible without microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">We can see only this fruit body in the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">We call it mushroom.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Many of you have taken penicillin as medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Penicillin tablets are taken by many to cure common cough and cold, throat pain etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">It is the first discovered antibiotic medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Alexander Fleming discovered this life saving drug from Penicillium fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">With its help blue cheese is prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Penicillium is a saprophytic fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Its spores float in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">They are also found in soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">They grow on citrus fruits, vegetables and other foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">When a piece of lemon is kept is a dark place, blue spots are visible in few days.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">These are Penicillium fungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">It is a beneficial fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">It is also the cause of human disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">We have learnt that parasitic plants cause diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Now let us know about such specific diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">a) Black band diseases of Jute The disease is identified as black band around the stem at ground level.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The band start as black patch and finally develop as band.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">When touched the hands become dirty black.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">At the final stage the stem breaks at this point.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The plant falls on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">This disease is caused by a parasitic fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The spores of this fungus look deep brown under a microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">It is an elliptical two celled structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">At the prevalence of the disease, fungicides are to be spread over.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Fungicides are chemicals that kill fungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">As a preventive measure disease free seed should be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The infected plant remains should be burnt in the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">It helps avoiding fresh attack of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">b) Blast disease of rice Walking by the rice field you might have seen brown or yellow scar on leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">These scars are broad at the middle and tapering at two ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Gradually scar become whitish at the middle point.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">When spikelet is affected at its base, it breaks down.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The disease is caused by one type of parasitic fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Spraying of Brodeux mixture controls the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Control of weeds and burning of debris are effective preventive measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">While chewing sugar cane you might have seen long red scar inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">These type of scar may be the cause of a fungal attack.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The stems and leaves are affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">When a diseased stem is divided lengthwise, a red scar is visible at the middle along the length.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Shrinkage appears at nodal region.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The apex and sides of leaves become dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">This disease is caused by a parasitic fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The micro seeds or the conidia are curved and transparent.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">You know planting of top end portion with few leaves produce new plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">If this cutting is washed with fungicides before plantation, the attack of this disease can be minimized.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Burning of debris of previous year and using disease resistant stock saves the crop from disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">It is a very deadly disease of potato.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Once it caused famine in Ireland.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Black patches appear on stem and leaves on diseased plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Gradually all leaves and branches are affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The plants soon droop down.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">On large scale attack of the disease, the field spread bad smell all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Potato tubers show brown scars.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">A kind of parasitic fungus is responsible for the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Use of healthy seeds (tubers) and early variety are good preventive measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Use of appropriate fungicide minimizes the attack of the disease.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
