<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-genSci-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.874</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">175</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2127</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">673</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t92">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The general name of these things is matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Take your book in hand, it has some weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Keep it on the table, it occupies some space.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Push your reading table slightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The table will move but it will not change its position.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">This means, it has resisted the force you have applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">You can't see air.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">But you can feel its existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Thus all matters have more or less weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They occupy some space and resist any external force.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Matters can be seen, touched or felt with senses.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">There is countless matter in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">These have been divided into three classes as per their states, such as solids, liquids and gases.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Bricks, wood, stones, chair, table, book, exercise book etc. have definite shape and volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">In normal conditions, their shapes and volumes do not change.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">These are solids.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Water, oil, milk etc. have definite volumes, but do not have definite shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">They assume the shapes of the containers they are kept in.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">These are liquids.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">A gas has neither a definite shape nor a volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Air, hydrogen, oxygen, carbon dioxide etc. are gaseous substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The same substance can exist in three states such as solid, liquid and gaseous states.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Water is the best example of this.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">At ordinary temperature water is liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Water when cooled becomes solid ice and when heated it becomes vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Thus water can exist in all three states, such as solid, liquid and gaseous states.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Usually a solid substance when heated becomes liquid and a liquid when heated becomes gaseous.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">But the solid substances like camphor, salammoniac etc. when heated become directly gaseous without going through the liquid state.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">These substances are called volatile substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Even at ordinary temperature, these volatile substances vaporize slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">All substances are made of particular matters.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Matters are divided into three classes according to their constitution and properties or characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">These are elements, compounds and mixtures.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">We may take a piece of iron and divide it into smaller and smaller pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Whatever minute particle it may be, it retains the properties of iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">If hydrogen is analysed in this way, nothing of new properties other than hydrogen is obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">In this world there are 109 elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Of them 92 are obtained in nature and remaining 17 can be prepared in the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Compounds are substances, which when broken or analysed, more than one elements having different properties are obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">As for example, when water analyzed into its smallest parts, two matters, hydrogen and oxygen, having different properties are obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Similarly when common salt or sodium chloride is decomposed sodium and chlorine are obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Thus water, sugar, common salt, oil, clay etc. are compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The matter which when broken into smallest parts does not produce any other matter than itself is called an element.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">For example- gold, silver, copper, iron, hydrogen, oxygen etc. are elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Compounds are substances which when broken produce more than one element.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">For example- water, sugar, oil, salt, soap, soda etc. are compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">In free states elements can retain their respective properties or characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The properties of the compounds are totally different from the properties of its constituent elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The smallest part of the elements is atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Atoms retain properties of the element itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The smallest parts of compounds are the molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Molecules retain properties of the compound itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Similar atoms constitute molecules of the elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Molecules of compounds are constituted by different atom.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Total number of elements in this world is 109.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">You know that iron and sulphur are elements having different properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Iron filings look somewhat black and the sulphur dust is yellowish in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Take some iron filings and some sulphur dust on a piece of paper and mix them well.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In preparing the mixture, you don't need to weigh the iron filings and the sulphur dust.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Mixing them well spread them over the paper and observe.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">If possible, you can observe through a magnifying glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">What do you see?</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The iron filings and the sulphur dust are lying side by side.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Can we now separate the iron filing and sulphur dust from this mixture?</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Let us separate the elements from this mixture?</sent>
				<sent id ="66">What do you see? Iron filings got stuck to the magnet due to its attraction.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Draw the magnet over the mixture repeatedly until the iron filings are completely separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">A time will reach when no iron filings will stick to the magnet any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Then you may be sure that iron filings have been completely separated from the mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Now if you observe well, you will see that only yellow coloured sulphur granules are lying on the paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Thus you can easily separate the constituents of iron sulphur mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">This mixture of iron filings and sulphur dust is an ordinary mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The constituents of a mixture retain their own properties and characteristics fully.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">From the above experiment, you have also observed that constituents of a mixture can be easily separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The constituents do not change their own properties, the constituents lie side by side and can be separated easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">As for example air comprises of nitrogen, oxygen, carbon-di-oxide, water vapour, dust particles etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">All these keep their own properties intact in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">These constituents do not exist in air in definite proportions.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Air at different places has the constituents in different proportions and they can be separated easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">That's why, air is a mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Take iron filings and sulphur granules in a definite proportion in a test tube, mix them well and heat slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">After sometime, you will see that sulphur has melted, got mixed with iron filings and has produced a reddish mass.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Cool the test tube, take out the mass on a piece of paper and observe it well.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">What do you see?</sent>
				<sent id ="85">No iron filing or sulphur granule is seen in the mixture any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Because by application of heat chemical reaction has occurred between iron and sulphur and a new substance has been formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The name of this substance is iron sulphide.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">This new substance has colour and properties completely different form those of iron or sulphur.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Can the constituents of the new substance, called iron sulphide, be separate easily?</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Let us try to do this with the following experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Take some iron sulphide on a piece of paper and draw a magnet slowly over it.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">What do you see?</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Does any iron filing get stuck to the magnet?</sent>
				<sent id ="94">No, no iron filing gets stuck to the magnet and no sulphur granule can also be seen on the paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">This iron sulphide is a compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Application of heat is necessary for the formation of compounds, and the constituents of a compound can't be separated easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Water, salt, soap, soda, oil, sugar etc. are all compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The differences between ordinary mixtures and compounds are given in the table below.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Distinction between compounds and mixtures.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The weight of the constituents in a compound are in a definite proportion.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">As for example water contains on part by weight of hydrogen and eight parts by weight of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The properties of the constituent elements of a compound get lost and a new substance of different properties is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">In preparing a compound heat is needed to be applied or drawn out.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Constituents of a compound can't be separated easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The constituents of a compound are same or homogeneous everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">As for example, water collected from anywhere contains equal proportion of hydrogen and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In a simple mixture the constituents may be present in any proportion by weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">As for example, air is a mixture and nitrogen, oxygen, carbon dioxide, water vapour, dust particles etc are in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">In ordinary mixture the constituents retain their own properties and they remain side by side.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">In the preparation of a mixture heat is neither applied nor removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The constituents of an ordinary mixture can be separated by easy means.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The constituents of a mixture may both be homogeneous or heterogeneous.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">As for example, solution of water and sugar is a homogenous mixture but mixture of salt and sand is heterogeneous.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Sands and water can be separated from a mixture of sands and water by filtering.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Salt can be separated by heating a solution of water and salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Some common methods are applied for separating the constituents of a mixture in the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The common laboratory methods include sedimentation, filtration, vaporization etc. Below is the description of the methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Take some water in a glass jar or beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Mix some sands in the water and stir it for sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The sand-mixed water looks muddy, isn't it?</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Let this muddy mixture of sand and water stand for sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Now observe, what do you see?</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The sand particles have settled at the bottom of the jar and water above looks clear and transparent.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">This method of separating heavy, insoluble, solid particles from a mixture in a liquid is called sedimentation.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The heavy solid substance that settles at the bottom is called sediment.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Have you seen making a cup of tea at home?</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Tea-liquor is prepared by adding tea leaves to the hot water.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Tea leaves do not dissolve in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Liquor is separated by straining the insoluble parts of the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Dirty particles can be separated from water by filtering.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">In the previous experiment, you have separated the constituents of a mixture of sands and water by sedimentation.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">It takes a long time to separate the constituents in this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Without wasting such time, water and sands can be separated from the mixture by straining or flirtation.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Let us do this.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Prepare a mixture of sands and water in a beaker or glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Go on stirring the mixture with a stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Take a filter paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">As shown in the figure first fold the paper into two and then again into two.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Hold the paper with three folds on one side and one at the other to give it a conical shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">As shown in the figure, now set the funnel in a ring clamped with a stand.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Place the end of the funnel in an empty beaker, touching its inside wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Thus filtration is the process of separating insoluble, solid substances from a liquid one by pouring on the filter paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">In this experiment you have separated sand and water from their mixture by the method of filtration.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Thus, the process of separation of heavy insoluble or suspended solid particles from liquid by filtering is called filtration.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The solid substances collected on the filter paper after filtration is called residue.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The transparent liquid that is collected in the beaker after filtration is called filtrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In summer, canals, marshy lands, ponds etc. are dried up due to the heat of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Wet cloths become dry in the sun by evaporation of water in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">A few drops of water on a plate kept in open air disappear within a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">This vaporisation of water at normal temperature is called evaporation.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Sea water is saline, as it contains lot of common salt dissolved in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">In the tropical zones of the world salt is easily produced by evaporation of seawater.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">You have seen cooking of rice and curry at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">For cooking, pots of rice or curry are placed on the hearth and heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Water soon starts escaping as vapour due to heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">In this way, with the application of heat, transforming any liquid into vapour is called vaporisation.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">You have seen that insoluble solid solutes can be separated from a solution by the process of filtration or decantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">But solids such sugar, common salt, copper sulphate etc. are soluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Hence straining can't separate these soluble solid substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Then how do you get back the soluble solids from a solution of water?</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Yes, vaporisation is the method by which you can separate the soluble solids from a solution of water?</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Let us do the following experiment to get back the solid solutes from a solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">If it is stirred with a stirring stick, a coloured solution of copper sulphate is prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">How do you get back the copper sulphate from this solution?</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Heat the solution of copper sulphate in water with a spirit lamp as shown in fig 2.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">You will see that the solution gets heated soon and begins to vaporize.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Continue heating until almost all the water vaporises.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Now look at the bottom of the beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">What do you see? Blue copper sulphate crystals are lying at the bottom.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">We have got back copper sulphate from the copper sulphate solution in the water back from this experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">We want to get back both water and copper sulphate from the solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">But how do we get?</sent>
				<sent id ="173">A special process is adopted to get back both.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">This process is called distillation.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">You will know about this in detail in higher classes.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
