<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-genSci-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.044</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">196</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2007</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">757</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t100">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We find innumerable plants around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">One finds variations in there size and structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Some plants do not bear flowers or fruits; such as algae, mushroom, moss, fern etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Some other plants bear flowers and fruits; such as Paddy, wheat, Mango, Mustard etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">We have already learned a bit about nonflowering and flowering plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Now we shall learn about different parts of a typical flowering plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">A typical flowering plant has root, stem, leaves, flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Let us take a chili plant as a representative of a flowering plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Now let us describe its different parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">This plant is divided into two parts; the root and the shoot.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Part of the plant that grows under the soil level is called the root.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The main root gives rise to branch roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">These branch roots in turn produce branchlets.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It is called tertiary roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Each root bears at its tip a cap like structure, called root cap.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The portion of the plant that remains above the ground level is called the shoot.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The shoot includes stem, branches, branchlets, leaves, flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">In chilli plant a single flower grows at leaf axil.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The flower has calyx, corolla, androecium and gynoecium.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The part of a plant that have no apical bud, nodes and inter nodes; is called root.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Normally root is formed from the first root called the radicle.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">It does not bear leaves, flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Normal roots grow down- wards.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Of course it is not true that at all times the underground parts are the roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Prop roots of Banyan and aerial roots of Orchid remain above the ground level.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">While stems of Zinger, Turmeric, Onion etc grow under the soil level.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The radical grows as main root.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It is the primary root.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Branches of main root is called branch roots or secondary roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Branches from secondary roots are the tertiary roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The main roots is also known as tap root.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">A root can be divided into few regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">At root tip there is a cap like structure, known as root cap.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">This is the root cap region.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Root cap protects the smooth apical region from any probable injury caused by friction with hard soil particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Behind this, there lies a soft region, called growth region.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">In this area cell division and cell elongation occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The region behind this is the root hair region.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Very fine hairy growth appears around the root.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Above this region is the permanent region.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">From the permanent region the branch roots are developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Different plants have different types of roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Tap root: This root originates from the radicle of the embryo.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">It goes down inside the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">It gives rise to branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It is also called main root.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">In Mango, Basella, Spinach, Neem, Gram etc. we find this type of roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Adventitious root: Roots developed from stem, branches, leaves or any part other than the radical, are called adventitious roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">It is of two kinds; such as Fibrous roots and non fibrous roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">It is the characteristics of monocotyledonous plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">b) Non Fibrous roots: When adventitious roots grow separately from one another; it is called non fibrous roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Example-stilt roots of Screw pine, roots of Bryophyllum.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Main root and its branch together make a root system.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">It is of two kinds, such as Tap root system and Adventitious root system.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">In dicotyledonous plants, the main root along with its branch roots and tertiary roots make the Taproot system.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Example-Mango, Jackfruit, Mary gold, Rose etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">In monocotyledonous plants, the fibrous roots make the adventitious root system.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">When roots are modified, are called modified roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Both tap root and adventitious roots are modified.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The roots are modified to perform the function of storage of food, giving mechanical support and physiological functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Now let us discuss about modification of roots for food storage.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">We all have seen Radish, Turnip and Carrot.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">We also have taken them as vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Do you find any node, inter node, leaf or bud in them?</sent>
				<sent id ="65">No, there is nothing of the sort.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The crown of leaves you see arise from a very small and compressed stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">A normal root does not have any node inter- node, leaf or bud.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">These structures are very fleshy and juicy.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Why it is so?</sent>
				<sent id ="70">These roots store food.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">So they are fleshy and juicy.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The main root (tap root) swells up due to storage of food and can not be identified as roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Example- Sweet potato, Four o?clock plant (Sandhya malati) etc. called stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Normally a stem remains above the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">You will see that is has node, inter-node, leaves, axillary and apical bud on the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Node: From where leaves grow is called node.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">In mature stems nodes are located at almost equal distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">It is the node from where leaves, axilary buds, branches flowers and fruits grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Inter node: The portion in between two nodes is called an inter-node.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It helps the plant to stand erect.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It also helps plant growing.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Bud: Buds grow at the apex of a branch or at the axil of a leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The angle between the stem and a leaf is called an axil.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">It is found growing on stem, branches and branchlets.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Various kinds of stems are found in plants around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Some are strong while others are weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Stems of Jackfruit, Litchi are example of strong stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Bottle gourd, Cucumber, Gourd are plants with soft and weak stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Among these stems some are round or quadrangular, while flat and triangular stems are also found.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In Sacred basil (Tulshi), Bottle gourd (Lau), Cucumber (Shosha) stems are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Opuntia (Phonimonsha), Shama etc. have flat stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Stem of Eucalyptus is round and smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">All trees have round stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Erect (strong) stems: Erect stems are on four types.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Such as- a) Caudex: The stem is erect, strong and has a crown of leaves at the top.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Example-Coconut, Pamyra palm, Betel nut.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">b) Culm: Erect, unbranched stems with hollow inter nodes are called culm.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Example-Bamboo, Sugarcane etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Example- Mast tree (Debdaru).</sent>
				<sent id ="100">d) Deliquescent: These stems are simple and short.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">It give rise to lateral branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Growth of apical bud is weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It gives a look like a dome.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It bears branches, leaves, flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It keeps the branches and leaves in proper position for getting maximum sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">It transports water and mineral salts to branches and leaves, flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Foods prepared in leaves are carried by the stem to different parts of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Stems, when young and green, manufacture food.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Some stems store foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Stems gives mechanical support to the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Stem helps in storage of food, self defense, help surviving in unfavourable season and conditions and vegetative reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Lateral flattened green outgrowth of stem and branches at nodal region is called a leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Older leaves remain at the base of stem while the younger ones grow at the upper level.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">In algae and fungi there is no leaf at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In moss plants leaf like flat structures are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">These are not actual leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Leaves of flowering plants are the true leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The leaf, which bears leaf base, petiole and leaf blade or lamina is called a typical leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">In Mango, Krishna chura, Gold mohor etc. the leaf base is swollen.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Swollen leaf base is called pulvinus.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In Coconut, Betel nut and Pamyra palm the leaf base is flat and surrounds the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">It is called a sheathing leaf base.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">In some plants flat leaf like small growth arise from the leaf base.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">It is called stipule.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">2) Petiole: Petiole connects leaf blade or lamina with leaf base.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It is the stalk of the leaf; such as Mango, Jack Fruit, Betel leaf etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It is broad at the base and tapering at the apex.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">This tapered cone like part of lamina is called the leaf apex.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Marginal line of lamina is called leaf margin.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Midrib of religious tree (Aswatha) is very prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Branches from main vein or mid rib are the veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Branches from the veins are called veinlets.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Shape of leaf blade may be of various types.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Base on the shape of leaf blade, leaves are classified into some types.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Let us discuss some common types.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">When the lamina is long and thin like a needle it is called acicular; such as Casuarina.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">In paddy and Wheat, leaves are linear.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">In Bamboo, Mango etc. the leaves are like a lens (ballam).</sent>
				<sent id ="139">So they are called lenceolate leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Bettle leaf, Religious tree etc. bear leaves like heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">So they are cordate.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Arum leaves are arrow shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">So they are called sagittate.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Likewise we get ovate in China rose, rotund in Lotus.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Cucurbita leaf is irregularly lobed like duck?s foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">We see various types of leaves in plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Few of them with only one lamina, while others may have more than one lamina which are smaller in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">This small lamina is actually the part of the main lamina.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">It is called leaflet.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Based on lamina or presence of leaflet; leaves are classified into Simple leaves and Compound leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Simple leaf: Leaf that contains only one leaflet is called a simple leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Example: Black berry, Mango, Jackfruit, Banyan, etc. the margin of a simple leaf is entire or may be incompletely incised.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It is also divided into two types; Leaf with entire lamina and leaf with lobed lamina.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Leaves with entire lamina: When the lamina is not lobed the margin is entire.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Litchi, Mango, Banyan, Jackfruit etc. Leaves with lobed lamina: In some leaves the margins are lobed.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The incision of the lamina is such that is does not reach the mid rib.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Example;Mustard, Papaya, Arun etc. Compound leaf: A leaf composed of more than one leaflet is called compound leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Rose, Wood apple and Tamarind leaves are compound leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Each small leaf blade of a compound leaf is called a leaflet.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The branch like structure bearing the leaflets is called the rachis or axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">It is of two kinds such as Pinnate compound and Palmate compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Pinnate compound: When a compound leaf bears leaflets on its two sides it is called a pinnate compound leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It is of four types.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">It is again grouped into two types.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Paripinnate and (ii) Imparipinnate.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Paripinnate: In this type leaflets are in pairs and there is no apical leaflet.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Example: Rose, Clitoria etc. Bipinnate compound: In this case the rachis is branched.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Leaflets are arranged on this branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Example: Sensitive plant (Lajjabati).</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Based on number of leaflets palmate compound leaves are grouped into following types.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Green leaves manufacture food for the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">During photosynthesis leaf takes carbon dioxide and oxygen is released.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">During respiration oxygen is taken in and carbon dioxide is released.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">So gaseous exchange is another important function of leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">This exchange of gases occur through small pores, called stomata.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Plants release excess water in the environment in the form of vapour during transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Leaves store food and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Example: Basella (Puin), Bryophyllum (Pathar kuchi) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">When leaves modified into tendril it helps plant in climbing.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">It takes part in vegetative reproductions.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Example: Bryophyllum (Pathar kuchi.)</sent>
				<sent id ="182">For food, clothes and shelter we are dependent on plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">We take fish, meat, egg and milk as our favourite food.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Indirectly these animal products are also the contribution of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Because poultry, cattle & fishes feed on plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">It means animal world is mostly dependent on plants for food.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Specific contributions of roots, stems and leaves are described below:</sent>
				<sent id ="188">a) Importance or utility of roots: We use root everyday for different purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Roots of Bamboo, Banyan, Silk cotton, Tamarind, Mango, Jackfruit etc are used as fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">From Sugarcane stems we get sugar, fire wood and raw material for paper pulp.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Drugs are extracted from stems of Arjun, Cinchona, and Camphor.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Fibre, gum and fire woods are collected from stems of some other plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">c) Improtance or utility of leaves: We get various daily necessities from leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">From Amaranth (Danta), Dryopteris (Dhenki shak), Spinach, Basella, Cabbage, Lettuce, Coriander etc. we get vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Medicines are extracted from the leaves of Sacred basile, Bashak, Thankuni, Bellandonna etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">We use tea leaves for making tea.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
