<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-genSci-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.642</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">262</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2969</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">845</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t81">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">What is your height?</sent>
				<sent id ="2">What is your weight?</sent>
				<sent id ="3">It is necessary to weight your body with a weighing machine to answer this question also.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">What is the time now?</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Its answer is to be given by looking at a clock.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">What you have done to answer these three questions is measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">At first your height, secondly your weight and thirdly time.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">If you observe you will find that the three answers have been expressed in some numbers.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">This kind of scaling something and its expression in number is called measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Measurement is very essential and an important topic in learning science.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">In this chapter we will learn about measurement of length, mass and time.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">It is questioned, whether a football is bigger or a cricket ball?</sent>
				<sent id ="13">You will immediately answer a football.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">You cannot answer then and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Here you need measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Now you measure them with any device.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">You will see your finding is not correct.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Length of both the lines is equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">So what we see or guess, may sometimes give wrong idea.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Measurement is necessary to know the correct value or quantity.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">People need to measure various things in day-to-day life.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">What we eat, what we wear or the work we do, the game we play all involve measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">If you want to buy rice, pulse etc. you will have to buy them by weighing.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">If you want to make a shirt, the tailor has to take your measurements.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The daftari (a peon) in the school rings bell as per time and the class breaks.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Boundary of a football field is determined by measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Measurement has to be made for purchase or sale of a land.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">In a word, measurement is necessary for almost every work in the day-to-day life.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Measure the length of a bench in you school by your forearm.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Suppose, the length is equal to four forearms.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">What does this mean?</sent>
				<sent id ="32">It means that the length of the bench is four times the length of your forearm.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The length of your fore arm is known.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Here the unit of length is forearm a (cubit).</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Therefore a known length in comparison to which an unknown length is measured is called a unit of length.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Here kilogram is the unit of mass.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Generally, in order to measure things a certain part of the thing to be measured is taken as a standard.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The value of this known standard part is called the unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Unknown length, masses and time are measured comparing them with the respective unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">A number and a unit express a measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Various units of measurement were used in different countries in different ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">About 5000 years ago the Egyptians used to measure length by forearm.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The length of the arm from elbow to the tip of the middle finger was taken as one cubit.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">This procedure is still in practice in some places.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Occasionally this is used in our country also.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">But this kind of measurement based on some specific parts of a human body cannot be accurate.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Because length of all human bodies are not equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">For measuring rice, paddy etc. cane bowls of a certain size are sometimes used in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Again coins of various denominations are used to weigh gold and silver.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The sun rises in the east and sets in the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">For that, in the morning the shadow of a tree or a pole falls on to the west.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">As the daytime grows the length of the shadows becomes shorter and shorter.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">After mid-noon as the sun leans towards west the shadows fall on to the east.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Thus an approximate calculation of time can be made from the observation of the position and length of a shadow.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">But this is not very accurate especially during night and cloudy days time cannot be measured by this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Therefore for accurate measurement, unit should be such that it does not depend upon any particular person or time.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Its value should be the same in all times.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Few days ago mainly two systems of measurement were in practice in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">These are British system and (ii) Metric system.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">For that this system is also called the foot, pound, second, (F.P.S) system.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">In measurement use of various systems of units causes inconvenience.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">In this situation the shopkeeper has to have two sets of weights.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The prices have to be set in two ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The shopkeeper should know the relation between a kilogram and a pound.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Again say a businessman wants to import cloth from a foreign country.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He wants to buy in yards.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The foreigners say that they do not know yard.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">They sell cloth in metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">If only a single system of units is used in all the countries, there will be no such convenience.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">It is known as system international or briefly S.I system.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">In S.I system units resembles MKS system.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Now-a-days system international is used all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It is specifically used in scientific works.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">This system has also been introduced in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Units of length, mass and time does not depend on other units.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Units of these are called fundamental units.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">In the system international there are seven fundamental units.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">We will discuss only about the units of length, mass and time in this chapter.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Multiplying or dividing one fundamental unit by another obtains all other units except fundamental units.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">These units are derived units.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Units of area and volume are examples or derived units.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The area of the floor of a room is obtained by multiplying the lengthy of the room by its breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Units of both length and breadth in S.I. system are metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">We have learnt that unit of length in the System International or S.I. system is metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Two cut marks were made at the two ends of a bar made of platinum iridium alloy.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Distance between these two fixed marks at 0oC was taken as one metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">This bar is preserved at the office of the International Agency of Weights and Measures, at Sevres near Paris.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">You may have some idea about the length of a metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">When you buy cloth, the shopkeeper uses the wooden bar for measuring cloth is one metre long.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">If you want to measure the length or the breadth of your classroom, you can measure it in metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">But if you want to measure the length of a small thing, you cannot measure it in metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">A small unit is necessary for that.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">This small unit is centimeter, which is one-hundredth part of a metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Similarly small unit of mass is gram, which is one part of a kilogram thousandth.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Unit of time is second in all cases.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">This system is called centimeter gram, second system or the C.G.S. system.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">To measure small and big lengths various fractions and multiples of a metre are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">These fractions, or the multiples are always the one tenth or ten times of the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">For this, the system is also called decimal system.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">In System International unit of mass is kilogram (k.gm.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">You may have seen one-kilogram weights in grocer's shop while purchasing commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">These are made of the same weight as that of the standard kilogram.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The unit of mass in C.G.S system is gram.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">One gram is equal to one thousandth part of a kilogram.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Gram, kilogram, quintal and metric ton are the most commonly used units in our day-to-day life.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Thus, depending on the bulk and quantity of material to be measured, decimals or multiples of fundamental units are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Is mass called weight?</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Having such questions in your mind is quite natural.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Because in general sense mass is called weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">But in the scientific terms mass and weight do not mean the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Mass is the quantity of matter contained in a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">While the force of attraction of the earth on the body is its weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Mass of a body is constant.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">It does not change from place to place.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">But the force of attraction of the earth is higher at some places and lower at others.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Hence the weight of a body will be different at different places.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">This is because, the force of attraction of the moon is one sixth of that of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">So when kilogram unit is used for measurement, it indicates mass of some body.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Unit of weight is different.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">In the chapter Force you will see that the unit of weight is Newton.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">A body of mass of one kilogram weighs about 10 Newton.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Unit of time in both system International and C.G.S system is second.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Time can neither be seen nor be touched.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Hence unit of time is determined in a different way.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">You know that the earth rotates on its own axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">As a result day and night occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The time taken by the earth to make a single rotation on its own axis is called a solar day.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The duration of each solar day is not equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The time obtained by dividing mean solar day by 24 is called one hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Area: Your reading table is small.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Reading room is bigger than that.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Playground of the school is still bigger.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">What is the meaning of these words?</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Again the area of the playground is still larger than that.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">This known area of a square whose length of each side is one metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">This known standard area is the unit of area in the System International.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">This unit is called square metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">In the C.G.S system unit of area is square cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">One square cm. is equal to area of a square whose each side is one cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Fraction of this unit is used to measure small areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Again multiple of this unit is used to measure very big areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Both lengthwise and breadth wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Area of each of the square boxes formed is 1 square cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">What is the area of the rectangle ABCD?</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Count the total number of boxes in the rectangle.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Multiply the length of the rectangle with its breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Result will be the same in both the cases.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">It is 70 square cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Moreover you have observed that the same result is obtained by multiplying the length and the breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">A brick is bigger than a matchbox.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">It means that a brick occupies a larger space than that of a matchbox occupies.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Every substance occupies some space.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Space occupied by a substance is called its volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The volume of a brick is larger than the volume of a matchbox.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">A water jug contains six glass of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Volume of the jug is six times the volume of a glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Take three matchboxes of same size.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Keep a matchbox on a table and place another (match box) on the first one.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Volume of two matchboxes is double the third matchbox.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Keep the third matchbox over the two boxes.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">What is the increase in height?</sent>
				<sent id ="162">What is the increase in volume?</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Both have increased three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The bottom area of each of the matchboxes is the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Number of times the volume has increased is the same as that of the height.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Therefore, volume is obtained by multiplying, the area by height.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">1000 cubic cm. is equal to 1 litre.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Volume of regular shaped bodies such as a brick, a matchbox or a room can be easily determined.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">For this purpose simply their lengths breadth and heights are measured and multiplied.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">But how can we determine the volume of an irregular shaped body, such as a piece of stone?</sent>
				<sent id ="171">A measuring cylinder is used for the purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Measuring cylinders have graduation in units of volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">As such volumes can be measured with them, directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Take a small piece of heavy wood of regular in shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Measure, its length, breadth and height and determine its volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Now take a measuring cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Pour some water into it and take a reading.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Tie the piece of wood with a thread and dip it into the measuring cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Take reading of the height of water after the piece has completely been immersed.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">What is the volume of the piece of wood?</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Is this volume equal to the volume obtained by multiplying its length, breadth and height?</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Take out the piece of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Take a reading of the height of water in the measuring cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Now tie a piece of stone with a thread and dip it into the cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Take a reading of the height of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">What is the volume of the piece of stone?</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Ask your friend a puzzling question.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Of one kilogram of iron and one kilogram of cotton, which one has a greater mass?</sent>
				<sent id ="189">If he answers iron, he is befooled.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Again, if he answers cotton then also he is befooled.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Because masses of both are the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">But equal volume of iron is heavier than cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Hence masses of one-kilogram iron and one kilogram of cotton, though equal volume of cotton is by far greater.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Density of iron is more.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Density of cotton is less.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The masses of equal volume of different materials become different because of variation in their densities.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The mass contained in unit volume of substance is called its density.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">In the System International unit of mass is kilogram and unit of volume is cubic metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Thus the unit of density is kilogram per cubic metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Similarly in CGS system unit of density is gram per cubic cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">In the CGS system the density of water is 1 gram per cubic cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">This means that the mass of 1 cubic cm. of water is 1 gram.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">In the System International density of water is 1000 kg. per cubic metre.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The more the density of a body the more it is heavy.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Thus iron is much heavier than wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Comparison between the units of system International and the C.G.S. system.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Various kinds of measuring instruments are used to measure length and mass of a body and to measure time.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Descriptions of some simple instruments are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Metre scale A metre scale is used to measure lengths.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Generally it is made of a thin piece of metal or wood, 1 metre or 100 cm. in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">It has graduation marks at 1 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Again each cm. is divided into ten equal parts that is again into millimeters and are graduated.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The graduation marks showing centimeters are longer and that of the millimeters are smaller.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Perhaps there are metre scales in your school.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Your teacher will show them to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">You may have also used scales for measuring things.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Difference between higher and lower reading is the length of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">In figure 1.6 length of the line AB is 5 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Again say, you want to measure length of your reading table.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">If you place the scale in an oblique manner correct reading will not be obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Eye should be placed perpendicularly at the point on the scale whose reading is to be taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Balance is used to measure mass of any substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The balance that the shopkeepers use for measuring rice, pulse etc. is an ordinary balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">You all have seen this balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Some of you may have used it also.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">There is a wooden or an iron rod in this balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Pan may be of iron, brass or cane also.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">A cord or an iron hook is fixed just at the middle of the rod.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The balance may be hung by holding this cord on the hook.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">While hanging the rod remains horizontal, otherwise measure of mass will be wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The substance whose mass is to be measured is usually placed on the right pan.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Weights are placed on the left pan.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The weights put on the left pan indicates the mass of the substance placed on the right pan.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">That is say, when the empty pans are hung by holding the cord at their middle, the rod remains parallel.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The cord or the hook holding by which measurement is made, must remain just at the middle of the rod.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Clock is used to measure time.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">You all have seen a clock and used it.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Looking at a clock you get up from bed in the morning and you go to school.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">At bedtime also perhaps you look at the clock and then go to bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">There are various kinds of clocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The former has hands for hours and minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Time is read by reading the positions of the hands on the graduation marks.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">There is no hand in a digital clock.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Time is directly seen in numbers.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">While you want to observe time a glimpse at the clock gives you that in hours and minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">In some of the clock time can be seen up to second also.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Say at a certain time you observe a clock that reads 10:30.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">These clocks are run by batteries and are called electronic clocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Now a days most of the clocks with hand are also electronic clocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">One type of watch is used in the laboratory for measuring time.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">It is called stopwatch or stop clock.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Pressing a button this can be run or stopped as per desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">The hand of the watch remains at zero position before starting.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">This button should be pressed at the moment from which counting of time should start.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The watch starts running as soon as the button is pressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">As the counting of time is over the button is pressed again and the watch stops.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The position of hand of the watch shows the time for which the watch ran.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">If the button is pressed once again the hand comes back to zero position.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">A stopwatch is comparatively smaller and is like a wristwatch.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">A stop clock is slightly bigger and it looks like a table clock.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">It is kept on a table.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Stop watch and stop clock may also be digital.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
