<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-genSci-12</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.71</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">171</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2020</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">677</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t84">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We all know electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Application of electricity is seen in almost every area of our daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Lamps are lighted and fans rotate in the houses, offices and shops with the help of electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Mills and factories are run by electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Trams and trains are run by electricity in many countries for communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">All these are various kinds of work.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Therefore, electricity has the capacity for doing work.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">So, electricity is a kind of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The story of discovery of electricity dates back to about 2600 years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">A wise man named Thales used to live at a place called Miletas in Greece.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">He used to show this to his friends as a game of fun in order to give them pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">But he did not actually know that he discovered electricity, which would create a revolution in the world afterwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">About 2200 years passed since then and it is not known whether anyone thought seriously on that or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">That is to say, an invisible energy developed in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Electron is the synonym of amber in Greek language.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">From that Gilbert was the first to name this property of the substance as electricity whose Bengali synonym is biddut.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Scientists started to carry on researches on electricity after Gilbert had discovered it.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Statical electricity is produced by friction Experiment: Take a plastic or rubber comb.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">By rubbing the comb with a woolen cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">You can also perform this experiment if your hair is not dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Scientists have named this invisible energy as electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">This electricity is called statical electricity, as it remains static at the place where it is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">This electricity is also called frictional electricity, as it is produced by friction.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Thus, rubbing some special kinds of substances with each other produces statical electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Statical electricity can be produced by rubbing glass, rubber, plastic, gutta-percha, sealing wax, ebonite etc. with wool, silk etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Experiment: A glass rod is suspended by a thread of silk after rubbing it with silk cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Another glass rod is rubbed with silk cloth in a similar way.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">This rod is brought near the end of the first rod, which is rubbed with silk.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">It will be observed that the end of the suspended rod has moved farther.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Therefore, the two rods repel each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">It will be observed that there is attraction between them.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Then by a thread, another rubber rod is suspended after rubbing it with wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The first rubber rod is brought near the second suspended rod.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">It will be observed that there is repulsion between them.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Charges of the two rods exert force on each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">This name is in use till today.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">We cannot see charges but we can observe their influences.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">We can observe that the two charged bodies attract or repel each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">We can understand the existence of charge by observing this influence.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Charge is produced in a body due to rubbing.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The body is called a charged body.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The cause of electrical energy is the charge.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The effect of charge is electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Charges are of two kinds?</sent>
				<sent id ="45">positive charge and (ii) negative charge.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We have seen from the above experiment that two glass rods rubbed with silk repel each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Again two rubber rods rubbed with wool also repel each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">But the glass rod and the rubber rod attract each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">We have also learnt that charge of the glass rod is positive and charge of the rubber rod is negative.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Therefore charges of same nature that is positive charges of two glass rods repel each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Similarly charges of same nature that is negative charges of two rubber rods also repel each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">But the positive charge of glass rod attracts the negative charge of rubber rod.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">So it can be concluded that?</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Charges of same nature repel each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Charges of opposite nature attract each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">You have learnt that statical electricity is produced in a plastic comb, rubbed with woolen cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Is this statical electricity always static?</sent>
				<sent id ="58">You will get answer to this question from a small experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Experiment: Rub a plastic comb with a woolen cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The comb attracts small bits of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Therefore statical electricity has been produced in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Now touch comb with your hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Bring the comb near the pieces of paper again.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It will be seen that it no longer attracts pieces of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">What can be understood from this?</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It is understood that there is no more electricity in the comb.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Where did this electricity go?</sent>
				<sent id ="68">This electricity has gone elsewhere, flowing through the metallic substances or through the hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The electricity that we always use for lighting lamps, rotating fans, running mills and factories, lighting torches is current electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Electricity flows through the bulb or an electric lamp if we press the switch.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">As a result lamp is lighted.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Lamp remains lighted so long as electricity flows.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Flow of electricity stops when the switch is turned off.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">To keep the lamp lighted, flow of electricity needs to be maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">It is necessary to remember here that a definite amount of electricity is produced in a body by friction.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">This charge goes to earth as soon as it is touched with hand or with any metallic substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Flow of electricity ceases when there is no charge.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">So temporary flow of electricity is produced in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In order to maintain supply of electricity, there should be a source, which can supply electricity continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">You will learn about source of electric current a bit later.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">So, we have learnt that electricity is of two kinds ?</sent>
				<sent id ="82">statical electricity and current electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Statical electricity: The electricity which is confined or which remains static within a body is called statical electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Current electricity: The electricity, which flows through a body continuously and in a definite direction, is called current electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Can electricity flow through all substances?</sent>
				<sent id ="86">In order to get the answer to this question another little experiment is to be performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">It will be observed in bringing the comb near the pieces of paper that it still attracts them.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">What is understood from this?</sent>
				<sent id ="89">It is understood that electricity of the comb remains in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">That is to say, electricity does not go elsewhere by flowing through wood, glass, porcelain or plastic.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Electricity cannot flow through these substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">On the other hand, we have observed earlier that electricity can flow through iron, copper or brass.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Therefore, electricity can flow through some substances and cannot flow through some other substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Non-conductors or Insulators: Substances, through which electricity cannot flow, are called non-conductors or insulators.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Some examples of non-conductors are: glass, wood, porcelain, plastic, paper, silk, rubber, ebonite, dry air, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">For that reason electricity remains static at the place where it is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Had it been a conductor on production of electricity it would go elsewhere by flowing through it.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Generally the body is held by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">For that electricity goes through hand and body to earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Electricity can be produced in all substances by rubbing them in appropriate methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Statical electricity is turned into current electricity whenever it comes in contact with a conductor.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">If your houses or schools have electrical connection, lamp is lighted just pressing a switch.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Again a torch can also be lighted by pressing its switch.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Electrical energy has been transformed into light energy in both the cases.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">But source of electricity of house and source of electricity of torch are not the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Electrical connection is made in a house by drawing wire from a long distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">But perhaps two or three batteries have been used in torch.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Source of electricity of torchlight is the battery or electric cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Whereas electricity comes to houses from electricity generating centre.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The machine by which electricity is produced at the electricity-generating centre is called generator.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Electric generator and electric cell are the sources of electrical energy in our day to day work.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Mechanical energy is transformed into electrical energy in electric generator.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Any device to maintain continuous supply of electricity by producing electrical energy from chemical energy is called an electric cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Two metallic substances are partially immersed in a chemical substance in an electric cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Electricity flows through a conducting wire that connects the two metallic substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">There are many types of electric cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The cell commonly used by us is called dry cell or liquid-free fell.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">General people know this cell as torch battery.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">In various shapes these cells are used in torches, radio, two-in- one, clock, calculator, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">You have seen another type of cell used in motorcars or mikes.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">These look different from torch batteries, and they are also big and heavy.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">These are called storage cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Electric current is obtained by transforming again this stored chemical energy into electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">As a result, the same chemical substance can be used again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Transformation into chemical energy by passing electric current is called charging of battery.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Chemical energy of torch batteries being exhausted by use, these cannot be charged again.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Old batteries need to be replaced by the new ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Advantage of electric cell is that its size is small; as a result it is convenient to carry.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It can be used at any place.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Electric cell is ideal for use in wristwatch, calculator or motorcar.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">But where much energy is required, electric cell cannot be used there.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Then electricity produced from generator is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Electric generator can produce electrical energy of thousands and thousands of watts.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This electricity can be taken to hundreds and hundreds of kilometres away by means of wires.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">As a result electrical connections can be given to thousands and thousands of houses and mills and factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">You will learn in higher classes the principle on the basis of which electricity is produced by a generator.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It is rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The sky is overcast with dense black clouds.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Suddenly you see a flash of glaring light in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Terrible deafening sound is heard after a little while.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">You all have this experience.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">This flash of glaring light is called lightning and terrible sound you hear is called rumbling of clouds or thunderclaps.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">There are particles of water, dust and various gases in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Statical electricity is generated among these particles due to friction.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Therefore, the particles are charged.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Clouds are produced from the accumulation of such crores and crores of charged water particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">A cloud may either be positively or negatively charged.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Electricity produced in air due to various natural reasons is also deposit over the particles of water in the clouds.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Amount of electricity increases very much in cloud in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Heat, light and sound are produced simultaneously due to this.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This flash of light is called lightning.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Sometimes highly charged clouds come near to the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The lightning discharge occurs between the clouds and the earth, piercing the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">This is called thunder.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The higher a body is over the surface of earth, the nearer it is to the cloud.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">For this thunder generally strikes on top of high buildings and trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Thunder may strike even head of a man standing in the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Building crack and trees or men die due to occurrence of thunder.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It is not safe to remain standing under a tree during storm and rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It is not essential for cloud to come very close to earth for occurrence of thunder.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">There may be thunder from a cloud lying at a distance of four to five kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Sound heard along with thunder is called thunderclap.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Benjamin Franklin discovered first that electricity in cloud is the cause of thunder.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Sharp and tapering upper end of this rod remains high above the roof.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Other end, connected to a thick metal wire, is buried under the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">This rod is called lightning conductor.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">This rod remains closer to cloud than other parts of building.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">As a result, while there is thunder, it strikes this rod.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The rod is a metallic substance; therefore, it is a conductor.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">So electricity contained in thunder passes directly to the earth through the rod.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">As a result there is no harm to the building.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
