<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-genSci-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.913</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">194</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2175</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">762</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t94">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Air exists surrounding the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">We are sunk into this air.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">We cannot survive even for two or three minutes in absence of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">For this reason air is also called life.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">There is no living being on the moon as there is no air on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">We cannot see air.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">But we can easily feel the movement of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The leaves of trees move when air flows.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In summer the cool air refreshes our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Flow of air at a violent speed is called a storm.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Storm uproots big trees and overturns houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">You observe festivals by filling in air into coloured ballons.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">You fill air into the tyre of a bicycle and ride it.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Again you inflate football and volley balls with air and play with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">From all these we can easily realise the existence of air, although we cannot see it.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Now the question is, whether the sea of air in which we are sunk is a matter or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">You have learnt earlier what is called a matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Can you remember the three main characteristics of matter?</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Matter has weight, volume and it occupies space and it resists forces applied to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Knowing these properties of matter, naturally you may ask whether air possesses these properties like matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">In a word, is air a matter?</sent>
				<sent id ="22">You have learnt the answers to these questions in former classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">You have observed that when air is pumped into balloons, footballs, bicycle, tyres, etc they swell up.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Do you know why they swell up?</sent>
				<sent id ="25">It is because, air occupies space inside them.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">You can do an experiment by filling air into a balloon.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Air not only occupies space, but it has weight also.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">You inflate two balloons and fasten at the two ends of a stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Then fasten a thread just at the middle of the stick and make it like a balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Can you say why does it lean?</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Air goes out from the perforated balloon and it becomes lighter.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The other balloon being heavier the stick at that end leans down.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Air resists any external force.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Take a bucket of water and try to immerse in it an empty glass upside down.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">This testifies that air resists any external force to act upon.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Therefore, air is a matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">In chapter two you have studied matters and their classification.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Air is neither an element nor a compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">It is a mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Do you remember what a mixture is?</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The following arguments testify that air is a mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The components of a mixture can be easily separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">As air is a mixture, its components can be separated easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The properties of this mixture are similar to the properties of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">So it can be said that air is a mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">In air sometimes the amount of oxygen increases and sometimes that of carbon dioxide increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The amount of these components do not remain the same in air at all places.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">In marshy lands air contains more of carbon dioxide and methane.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">In big towns also air contains more of carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">It is because of dense population and large number of transports and factories in the town.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The smoke emitted from the transports and factories contain more of carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Besides, there are fewer trees in towns than in villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The amount of oxygen in air is more where there are more trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Again the air in the upper layer contains less amount of oxygen than that in the lower layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">These examples demonstrate that the amounts of the components of air vary from place to place.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Hence air is a mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The density of air is not the same at all places.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">That is to say, air is a heterogencous matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">If air were a compound, it would be homogeneous and its density would be the same at all places.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The components of air do not lose their individual properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The properties of air are the sum total of the properties of its components.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">As for example, both oxygen and nitrogen are colourless and odourless gases.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Air, too, is a colourless and odourless gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Oxygen facilitates combustion and air also facilitates combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">If air were a compound, neither oxygen nor nitrogen could retain their properties, they would lose them.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">All these arguments prove that air is a mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">We have learnt that air is a mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The two main ingredients of air are oxygen and nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Besides, air contains carbon dioxide, moisture, very little amount of inert gases like helium, neon, argon, etc and dust particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The amount of different ingredients present in air, in approximate percentage by weight and by volume, is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Testing the presence of different ingredients in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">A. Testing the presence of oxygen and nitrogen in air: Burning a fire is not possible without air.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The ingredient of air that helps burning is oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Air is necessary for any burning or combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Besides, air is very essential for our respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Cover a burning candle with a glass or jar in such a way that air cannot enter.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">After sometime you will see that the candle is extinguished.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">This experiment proves that burning a fire is not possible without air.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Now the question is: Does everything in air help combustion?</sent>
				<sent id ="80">To get answer to this question, do the following experiment: Place a flaming candle in a big bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Carefully pour water into the bowl so that water may rise up to half of the height of the candle.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Put a mark on the glass at the level of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Does the candle extinguish?</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Does the extinction occur at once or slowly?</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Does the water level rise in the glass or jar?</sent>
				<sent id ="86">How far does it rise?</sent>
				<sent id ="87">If you observe carefully you will see that: The candle extinguished.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">After burning for some time the candle extinguished slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The water level rose slowly inside the glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">After sometime water occupied one-fifth of the empty glass (not really empty, it contained air).</sent>
				<sent id ="91">One-fifth of the glass is occupied with water and four-fifths remain empty.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Due to combustion of the candle the whole of air in the glass is not utilized or burnt up.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Water would occupy the entire glass if whole of the air had burnt up.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The one-fifth (or one part out of five parts) of the air has been utilized in combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The scientists have named it as oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Therefore about one fifth of air is oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Fire does not burn without oxygen, and without oxygen respiration cannot take place.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">So you have seen that one-fifth of air is oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Then what are the remaining four-fifths?</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Insert a flaming stick into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">What does happen?</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The flaming stick at once extinguishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Scientists have named this ingredient of the air as nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">So we can say that four-fifths of air contains nitrogen and other ingredients.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Nitrogen does not help combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">You can test the presence of carbon dioxide in air at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Keep some clear limewater in a beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Do not cover the mouth of the beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">After a day you see that a white film has formed on the surface of the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The carbon dioxide present in air reacted with the limewater and formed this film.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This white film is calcium carbonate.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">To prove that air contains carbon dioxide perform the following experiment in the class.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Take some clear limewater in the bottle or in a conical flask fitted into the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">One of the tubes should reach the bottom of the flask and the other should just enter inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Now start sucking air with your mouth through the short tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">You see that air enters into limewater through the longer tube and bubbles up.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">After sucking air for sometime in this way, you will see that the clear limewater is getting turbid.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">This proves that there is carbon dioxide in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Take some ice in a glass and keep it the air for sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Observe the outer surface of the glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">What do you see? Drops of water have accumulated on the outer surface of the glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Where does this water come from?</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This water comes from the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">So from this we can understand that there is moisture in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">This means that there are dust particles in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The element of air, which helps combustion, is oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">You have also learnt that one- fifth of air is oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Among the rest four-fifths parts of air, there are nitrogen and other elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Nitrogen and other elements of air don't help combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Only oxygen helps combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">We are sunk into the sea of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">We cannot live without air.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">So another name of air is life.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">At every moment we inhale and exhale air.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Amount of nitrogen remains the same in both cases.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">A portion of oxygen that take while inhaling goes to our lungs and get mixes with blood and purifies blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Energy is produced in our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Heat is produced and this heat maintains the temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Do the following experiment to test the presence of carbon dioxide in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Take some clear limewater in a jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Take a cup of limewater from the jar and keep it in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Slowly the limewater in the cup turns muddy and a In this way limewater takes much time to become white.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">So you may perform this experiment at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Now take another cup of clear limewater from the jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The limewater becomes muddy very quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Why does this happen so quickly?</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The air we exhale contains more of carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">This additional carbon dioxide when mixes with lime water makes it muddy or whitish quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">It is carbon dioxide which makes clear lime water muddy.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Air is an invaluable wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Without air, no animal or tree can survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Plenty of carbon dioxide is being added to the atmosphere every moment from our exhalation.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Plants and trees receive this carbon dioxide from the air and prepare their own food by themselves through photosynthesis process.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Trees collect water from the soil with the help of roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Human beings and other animals receive their food from the trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Carbon and oxygen combine together to form carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Plants use carbon 46 General Science dioxide of the air for producing food and leave oxygen in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">In this way a wonderful balance is maintained in the kingdom of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Importance of nitrogen in the plant and animal kingdom We know that four-fifths of the air is nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">This nitrogen is of immense value to animals and plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Had there been no nitrogen in the air, we would get only oxygen for our respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">We know that oxygen helps combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Pure oxygen received through inhalation would expedite combustion extremely, and as a result it would be impossible to survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Air becomes lighter due to the mixing of nitrogen with oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">As a result respiration and combustion inside the body occur smoothly and at a moderate speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Nitrogen has a special need for nutrition of plant and animal body.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Some plants such as the chickpea, pea, bean, etc take nitrogen directly from air.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Besides these none of the members of the vast animal and plant kingdom can receive free nitrogen directly from air.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Plants receive nitrogen from the nitrates mixed with the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Herbivorous animals directly from the plants and carnivorous animals from other animals receive nitrogen as protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Thus plants and animals, all take nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Consequently nitrogen should have been exhausted from nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">But in fact such a situation does not occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">As a result, the quantity of nitrogen in air always remains the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">This cyclic rotation of nitrogen is called nitrogen cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">You will learn in detail about this in the next higher classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Urea and ammonium sulphate are the nitrogenous chemical fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Urea contains 46% and ammonium sulphate contains 21% nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Use of these two fertilizers helps rapid growth of the branches and twigs of the trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">These give deep green colour to the trees and increase their yields.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Gases emitted from rubbishes, open drains, stagnant ponds, boggy swamps, open latrines, etc pollute air.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Gas that is given out by the decomposed dead bodies of animals, pollute air.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Gases that are given out from the brickfields, smoking of cigarettes, tannery, fish drying fields, cremation ground etc. pollute air.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Besides this, the sunshine dries up all moist things and checks their decay.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Thus it helps keep the air fresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Thus air is purified.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">This purifies air.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">D. With the help of ozone: Ozone gas is formed due to thunderclap in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">This ozone gas destroys the floating germs in the air, and thus air is purified.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Air in homesteads, industries and their surroundings become polluted due to various reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">By arranging artificial circulation of air in these areas such pollution can be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">This method is more suitable for town areas than rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">C. By air conditioning: The air inside of a house may be kept fresh by air conditioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Nowadays this method is widely used in railway carriages, motorcars, cinema halls, hotels, offices, residences, etc.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
