<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-genSci-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:57.959</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">176</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">1983</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">763</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t96">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Water is the most easily available liquid of all the liquids present on the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Three fourth of the earth surface consists of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Human body contains about 70% water.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Fish, meat vegetables contain almost 60% to 90% water.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">None can survive without water.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">That is why the other name of water is life.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Water is a liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">It has no definite shape, it takes the shape of the container in which it is kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">You have learnt about the elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Compounds and mixtures in chapter number two.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Now, the question is raised what class of substance is water?</sent>
				<sent id ="12">An element, a compound or a mixture?</sent>
				<sent id ="13">In ancient period, water was considered to be an element to the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Water is a compound; this can be proved by the following arguments.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">If water was a mechanical mixture, the proportion of mass of oxygen and hydrogen would be different.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Water is produced by the combination of oxygen and hydrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The individual properties of each component are absent in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Heat energy is produced during the formation of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">If water was a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen no heat would evolve.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">A chemical compound is always homogeneous.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">But oxygen and hydrogen that remain in water are homogeneous.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">After chemical analysis of a compound it produces different elements having different properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Electrolysis of water produces two elements oxygen and hydrogen having different properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">From the above point of view it is to say that water is a compound and not a mechanical mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Water is composed of two elementary gases hydrogen and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">When electricity is passed through a slightly acidulated water, it decomposes into two gases; oxygen and hydrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">This method of decomposition of a compound into its components by chemical reaction is called chemical analysis.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Water can be decomposed chemically into its component elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">For this, let us perform the following experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">First of all close the two holes of the glass bowl with the rubber stoppers.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Introduce two copper wires into the bowl through rubber stoppers.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Now connect the other two ends of copper wire with four dry cell out side the bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The four dry cell should be kept in wooden case.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Insert the two carbon rods inside the bowl appropriately.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Now pour water in the bowl, acidified with a little sulphuric acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">After a few moments you will see that gas bubbles are evolving from the carbon rods.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Take two test tubes of same size and fill them with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Place them on the carbon rods inertly and clamp them.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Observe that gas is deposited into the two test tubes by down wards displacement of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">You will also observe that gases deposited in the test tubes are not equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The amount of gas in one tube is one half the amount of gas in the other tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">After filling both the test tube with gases, bring them out, closing their mouths with your fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Now enter a lighted jute stick into tube in which gas will be deposited quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The stick extinguishes and the gas burns at the mouth of the tube with a blue flame.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">This proves that the gas is hydrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Similarly insert another lighted stick without flame in the other tube, in which gas will be deposited slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">You see that the stick kindles and burn brightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">This proves that the gas in the rube is oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">This means that water is a compound and it is composed of two elements as hydrogen and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Another name of water is life.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">No life can exist without water.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Plants and animals need water for different purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Water is required to build the cells of a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The water secreting from mouth helps to swallowing food.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The food components dissolve in water and then absorb in body.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The fluid of blood transports food items to different organs and then it produces energy and builds body.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Similarly, the toxic substances are leaving out through this water.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Sufficient amount of water are required to washing cloth, bathing, cooking and cleaning of utensils.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">There is a hydroelectric power station at Kaptai in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">We use this electricity to lighting bulbs, running fan, radio, television etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Again, large quantity of water is required in different small and heavy industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Cultivation of lands is not possible without water.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Cultivation of land in our country mostly depends upon rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">But at the time of requirement sufficient rainfall do not occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Thus, the farmer cultivates their lands by irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Water is essential for plant kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">From the time of germination of seeds sufficient quantity of water is required, until end of the life of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Plants receive required quantity of water from soil by their roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">This water reacts with carbon dioxide in air in presence of chlorophyll and sunlight to produce food.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The plant and animal world live by taking this food.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Rainwater is the purest form of natural water.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Water in the sea, river canal, lake, pond etc vaporise due to sunshine and go into the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In contact with the upper cold air this vapour condenses into cloud and make rainfalls from the cloud.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">As a result, the rivers, ponds, canals, lakes, swamps etc fill with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">In the hill track area there is more rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">This rainwater goes into the river and sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">This cycle of water is called water cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">This water cycle is shown in figure.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Rainwater enters into the soil after rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Sand, clays and stones filter when it passes water through them.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">After a long storage in the ground this water comes up on the surface as fountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">This water is also obtained from wells and tube-wells.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Various substances present in the soil get dissolved in this water.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">For this reason, fountain water is not always pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">But as it comes out through the layers of sand and stone, it looks almost clear.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Molten snow from mountains, rain and fountain water flow into the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">For this river water looks muddy and un-clean in rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The river-flow carries various materials with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Some of these materials are soluble and some are insoluble.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Soluble materials contain different salts and insoluble materials contain sand, clay etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">In rainy season river water looks turbid due to the presence of clay and mud.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Sea is the main source of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">River flow into the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Seawater looks clear.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">But it contains the largest amount of dissolved impurities.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Excess amount of different salts contain in seawater.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">For this seawater is undrinkable and salty.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Besides these, we get water from wells, tube-wells, ponds, lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Water from these sources is used for drinking and other domestic purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Now a day's water is supplied to the city areas and in cultivating land from deep tube-wells.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">We should be very careful about the purity of our drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Water is polluted in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Pure water cannot be obtained except rainwater.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Rain water generally pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">But rainwater at the beginning of rain remains dirty due to the presence of dust particles in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The rainwater in industrial areas is not pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Water in ponds, ditches, canals and rivers become polluted in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Some of the common causes of pollution of water are mentioned here.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Plants and herbs, leaves of trees straws, moss etc pollute water by decay and decomposition.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The waste of industries contains toxic and poisonous chemicals.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">When the wastes thrown to lake and river are water pollutes by it and fishes are killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Various insecticides are applied on a large scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">These poisonous chemicals are washed by the rainwater and fall into pond and river.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Thus water is polluted and fishes are die in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Excess use of chemical fertilizers in the land is harmful to different living bodies in pond and river.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">These excess chemical fertilizers are washed down by rainwater and brought into the pond or river.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">As a result moss and other aquatic weeds grow more in the river and pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">These weeds use dissolved oxygen in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Due to this fishes die for oxygen deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Dead fishes make water polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">This polluted water is harmful to use.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Production of masses and weeds in water are decreased due to shortage of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">There is no risk to drink pure water.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">We should always drink pure water.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Tube-well water is usually pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Meanwhile, you have known the causes of pollution of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Such as natural method and artificial method.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">In nature, water is being purified through natural process but it is being polluted the next time.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Hence one cannot depend on natural methods of purification of water for drinking purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Water from preserved pond, well or tube-well, that cannot be polluted easily, can be used for drinking purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Sunlight damages the bacteria in water and removes bad smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The dissolved oxygen in water makes organic substances in water harmless and removes bad smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Minute aquatics live in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">They eat dirty particles of water and thus water is about purified.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Aquatic plants produce oxygen in water by which water is purified.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">When bacteria is present in great extent in preserved water, they destroy themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">So water is purified.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">There are several artificial methods by which water is purified.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The following three methods are most commonly used to make water pure and germless.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">By boiling : At first insoluble floating substances, muds, clays etc contained in water are filtrate out.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Then the water is boiled for 20-25 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">All the germs are killed due to boiling.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It is now free from germs and ready for drinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">But the boiling container should be cleaned and then dried by heating.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">This method of purifying water is dependable, cheaper and suitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Potassium, bleaching powder, potassium permanganate, chlorine etc are added to water and allowed to settle down the impurities.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Then decant the clear water from upper portion and then it is ready for use.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Some tablets are available for the purification of water, are called water-purifying tablets.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Using these tablets can purify water.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Sometimes floodwater enters into the tube-wells and wells etc and pollutes water.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">At that time water-purifying tablets can be used to purify water.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Water is the most valuable natural asset.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Excessive use of any asset ended once upon a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Deposit of water is not also unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">So never misuse water.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">To avoid wastage of water carefully close the water tap.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">You have observed that there is much difference between the water in the rural area and town.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">You will astonish to know that the layer underground water in our country is gradually going down.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">That is why the rivers, and canals of our country become dry in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">For that reason our country is going to be a desert.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">So you need to be conscious that there is no wastage of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In this chapter you have known about the various information of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">You should use pure water for different activities such as cooking, washing, bathing, drinking etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">You must drink boiled water after cooling.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">In the big cities the water is first purified with chlorine and other chemicals and then it is supplied.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Bacteria may form in the water tanks in the city if it is not cleaned periodically.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">For that water should be boiled to drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">By using polluted water you can be attacked by diseases like dysentery, cholera, typhoid and jaundice.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Water should not be polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">You must be take care of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Avoid those activities, which may cause pollution of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">So try to avoid such activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Now a days the farmers in our country use chemical fertilizers and insecticides in a large extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">These chemicals are drainage away by the rainwater and cause pollution of river and ponds water.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Farmers need to be motivated not to use excess chemical fertilizers and insecticides out of necessity.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Following the above-mentioned steps are can prevent pollution of water and you can obtain pure water easily.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
