<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-homeEco-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.078</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">364</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4546</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1405</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t101">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The primitive people did not know how to build homes.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They took shelter in the caves, on the branches of trees or on the peak of the hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">In this way they saved themselves from the attack of wild animals or from the grasp of storm and rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Most of the time, they roamed about from one place to another like gypsies.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Gradually they learnt the use of fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Gradually they learnt the use of different metals like copper, iron etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">In course of time, they also learnt the cultivation of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Dwelling houses were set up by levelling the forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Thus the first attempt of building homes was started.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">An area surrounded by four walls only cannot be called a home.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Home means a particular house where different members of the family live together.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The necessity of home in a man's life is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Various needs of the members of the family are fulfilled at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">These are the needs for food, clothes, comfort, recreation, hobbies etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">A home satisfies man's needs and settles their grievances.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">It preserves their privacy and raises their social status.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">It makes opportunities for marriage and living a family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Though we are to go out for different work, we come back home to take rest there.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Man feels the need of a home for living together, being tied up in the bondage of affection and love.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Home is essential for protecting oneself also from unfavourable weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Besides these, a home is needed for preserving foodgrains and other necessary commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">A clean, safe and comfortable home environment is desired by everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">This kind of environment helps fulfill all the demands of the family through proper management.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Home management is the administrative side of a home.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Home environment should be clean and tidy for manifestation of managerial behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Home environment is formed with the home itself and all other objects that exist around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Home is the first environment in a child's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">A child after its birth begins to develop in this environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">On the contrary, indecent and indisciplined environment helps child acquire unknowingly some bad habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">These habits make obstruction in developing the child properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The home and its environment have much influence on both personal and social life.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">A child brought up in a nice and disciplined environment will be well-ordered in his/her future life.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">He will be careful in all his performances.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Good habit will be formed in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He will acquire polite behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">He will be generous and broad minded.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Though the rural houses are built in open environment, they should have proper arrangements for doing necessary household works.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">These are- cooking, sleeping, taking rest, studying, entertaining guests etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">For maintaining good home environment, there should be no bushes or hedges around the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Cowshed should be at a distance from the dwelling house.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">There should be arrangements for pure drinking water and hygenic latrines.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">To make the environment of a house nice and attractive, internal and external cleanliness is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">All the nooks and corners of the house and the space under the furniture should be cleaned and mopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Care should be taken properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Only then, the environment of the house becomes neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Otherwise if the environment is dirty, it will help germs and insects to grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">There will be disturbance of flies and mosquitoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">It will cause harm to health and create problems for working.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">It is very difficult to maintain internal cleanliness and tidiness of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">It can be maintained at the cost of much time and energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">It is not possible to execute all the tasks of cleanliness suddenly in a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Attempts should be made to perform all these tasks accurately through proper planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Though sweeping and wiping are done everyday in every house, it is not possible to remove dust from everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">It is found that the unused clothes, dishes and plates and furniture remain dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The tasks of overall cleaning of the house should be performed by daily, weekly and yearly planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Soft cotton clothes which absorb water easily are to be used for sweeping floors of the rooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Floors should be wiped daily with clean water.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">It will clean the floor by removing all the stains.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">A separate piece of cloth should be used to clean the floor of the kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">This floor should be cleaned once a week by a brush and hot water mixed with detergent powder or soda.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">If the floor is made of clay, it is to be annointed at regular intervals and to be kept dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Buckets, bowls and mugs are needed for washing and wiping the floors of the rooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">These containers may be made of plastic, aluminium tin or any other materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In rural areas, earthen bowls are usually used.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Plastic made buckets or mugs do not cause any harm to the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">In towns, floors can be wiped in standing position by mopping brushes.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The use of bleaching powder in the messy and slippery places helps cleaning those places and sterilise them.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Soft cotton clothes or clothes of guernsey may be used as dusters.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">To keep the dusters clean, these should be often washed by boiling water mixed with soda or soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">If the woods of doors and windows are burnished, they should be cleaned by dusters.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">If the woods are painted, they can be rubbed from time to time by wet towels added with soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In the grills specially in the grills of the kitchen more dirts are gathered and stains are formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In this way, grills should be cleaned at least once a month.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Glass fitted doors and windows are to be softly dusted off daily by a piece of thin cotton cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Then they are to be wiped out by soft dry cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The glasses of windows of the kitchen are stained by sticky soots.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Wiping the floor of the room with rubbing.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Different household articles become worn out, stained, broken, discoloured or bent for being used for many days.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">As a result they become almost useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Toys bought from the fairs, old worn-out pictures and calendars hung on the wall hamper the decency of the rooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Worn out and useless things unnecessarily occupy spaces of the room, shelves, drawer and cupboard.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">To clean those spaces and worn out things, both time and energy are wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Many times it is found that worn out things occupy spaces and no room is available for keeping necessary articles.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">If unused things are stored for a long time, they become the dwelling place of cockroaches.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The empty containers of tin, if kept unused for a long time,,are rusted.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Worn out and waste objects, buckets, cooking pots and other broken furniture should be rejected and removed from the rooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">There is every possibility of accidents if unnecessary and rejected objects are scattered here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">For healthy body and sound mind, both inside and outside of the house should be kept clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Dirty water used in household work, liquid waste, rainwater and latrine water are removed through drainage system of the canals.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The mosquitoes and flies lay eggs if the drains and canals are not clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">They carry on breeding and spread germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In such unhealthy environment, people are attacked with contagious diseases as malaria, diarrhoea, typhoid, cholera, dysentery etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">For the sake of good health, it is also urgent to keep running the drainage system.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In towns, there is connection of underground pipe lines of water with the drains.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">They block the passage for passing water.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Water and mosses are gathered, filths are rotten and bad smell comes out.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">As a result, the environment is polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Stagnant water makes the environment damp.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This kind of environment helps flies and mosquitoes breed and multiply.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Drains should be cleaned daily with brushes having long handles.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Drains should also be cleaned*.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">by brooms and Phynile.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">DDT powder should be sprinkled in the drains from time to time.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">These drains are built of mud in rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Mosquitoes and flies increase menacingly if rain water is stagnant in these drains.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Besides, hedges hamper the blowing of wind outside the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">They also block the entrance of sunshine in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Soil becomes damp for lack qf sunshine.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Unhealthy environment prevails.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Hedges outside the house should be cut down.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Flowers in the front portion of the house and vegetables at the back can be grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">It increases the beauty of the house and the mind remains cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">There is also satisfaction of eating fresh vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Seasonal flowers, fruits and vegetable gardens outside the house increase the beauty of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Proper care of the garden is needed to keep the environment neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">It is necessary to make soil soft by regularly digging and turning the earth up.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Weeds should be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Children of the family can share this responsibility among themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It helps develop the sense of dignity of labour among them from the very childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Body and mind become sound owing to working in the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The children become accustomed to hard work.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">All sorts of filth are carried away to the river through this sewer.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Some mouths of this sewer remain open upto the surface of the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">These mouths are closed by iron or cement made lids.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">There may be one or two of this sort of lid within the boundary of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Any peel of fruits or vegetables or any dry waste should not be thrown into the pipes of liquid waste.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">If the pipe is blocked, all the filth of the latrine can not pass through it.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">It will come to the bathrooms by overflowing the pan of the latrine.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">All the used dirty water of the kitchen will come back to the kitchen through the pipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">As a result the environment of the house will be polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">As a result other dirts cannot enter the pipes except water.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Only then, they will be available in time of need.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Time and energy will not unnecessarily be wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">After finishing the task, they should be put in right place in stead of scattering them here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The members of the family should form this habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">There is the possibility of accident if things are kept scattered.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">If things are not available in time of need, one is to be exhausted in looking for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Time is wasted and one may loose interest in the work.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">One feels interested for doing something in a tidy nice room.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Household Equipment means things that are used in household work like furniture, utensils and other equipment.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Suitable equipment and commodities are needed to maintain comfort and satisfaction of the members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Some of these may be used in daily life and some may be needed in future life.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">So proper care of these things increases their lasting capacity and brightness is retained for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Cleanliness and tidiness of a house depends on proper placement and good order of things.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">As a result, things are available easily in time of need.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Time and energy are not wasted in searching things if they are properly placed.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Furniture of different families are of different type.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">They may be big or small.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">They should be arranged properly in different rooms according to the needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">In this way, the furniture of other rooms should be set in proper places according to their use.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">There are a few things which are used frequently in daily work of every family.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Shelves may be used to keep these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">If the things of the kitchen are properly placed, it becomes convenient for doing any work.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The used big or small empty containers, boxes with lids should be washed and wiped.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Then they can be used to fill with species and other food stuff.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">In the market, plastic or iron shelves and racks for cups and saucers are available.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Cups and plates can be put in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">These things can also be kept in the shelves.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Cooking pots and pans which are used every day can be kept on the lower shelves.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Sharp equipment like chopper, bowl, knife should be kept in one side of a shelf.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Additional equipment of this sort can be kept in the upper shelf of the kitchen by wrapping cloth around them.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">If there is no shelf, they can be put in a box.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Otherwise there is possibility of their being rusted.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Now-a-days in modern kitchens, there are arrangements for doing all sorts of work standing.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">There are cabinets and drawers of different sizes in the kitchen for preserving cooking equipment.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">These equipment can be arranged in the drawers and cabinets according to convenience of working.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Cosmetics include those items which are used for physical cleanliness and dressing.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Babies, Girls, Boys, Man, Woman all use cosmetics.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Cosmetics, are of different types according to age, sex and season.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">It is convenient to keep them in places where they are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">They can be arranged in a shelf or a box.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Or they can be kept in shelves near the mirror or on the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Many persons keep makeup materials in a chain fitted small bag or in a beauty box.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The cosmetics should not be kept within the reach of small children.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Besides these many houses may have sewing machines.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Tools and equipment will be easily available in time of need if they are kept in order in a box.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Gardening of flower, fruit or vegetables gives amusement and pleasure to both body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Regular nursing is necessary for enhancing the beauty of the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Suitable equipment is necessary for removing weeds from the garden,watering, cutting bushes etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">These equipment may be broken, rusted and stolen if not preserved carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">They can be found easily if they are kept in the adjacent area of the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">If there is extra space in the garage, shelves can be made there.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The gardening equipment can be kept there to get them easily in time of need.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Before keeping them in the store, they should be cleaned and dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">As a result, those things do not set rusted and become Long lasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">First aid equipment should be kept in every house because they may be needed at any time.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Accidents never comes forecasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">So, appropriate precautionary measures should be taken for any adverse situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">First aid treatment equipment are kept in a box which is marked with a red- coloured plus (+) sign.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">This box is called First Aid Box.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Names should be written on the bottles of the medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">If the names are not written, mishap may occur by using wrong medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">This box should be kept beyond the reach of small children.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">This box should be kept in a high shelf on wall cupboard so that it can be seen easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Vegetable gardens are those where different vegetables are planted in different seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Usually there is little space around the dwelling houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Different types of vegetables are planted disorderly in this space.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">No scientific method is used in this type of vegetable production.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Along with the increase of population, the demand of food is increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This is why we should increase the intensiveness of planting vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The method of planting different types of vegetables in the same land throughout the year is called intensive vegetable planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">If this method is followed, the land never lies unplanted throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">For this purpose, a model for plantation of vegetable in the dwelling house has been innovated.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Through this method, vegetables are planted in a piece of land throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">When one type of vegetable is collected, another type is sown in that land.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Seeds of different types of vegetables are scattered in the same land at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">For example stalk and pepper can be planted along with lady's fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">For example, native kidney beans may be planted in the regular blank spaces leaving for Kakrole.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">In this method, a piece of land is divided into several parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Different types of vegetables are planted at the same time in different parts of the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Generally, family vegetable garden is planted in this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">In this method, in between two rows of one type of vegetables, the other type of vegetable is planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">For example, in the inter spaces of potato rows, red vegetables, coriander seed and spinach can be planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">To produce different vegetables throughout the year in the limited areas of land .</sent>
				<sent id ="215">To motivate the members of the family to eat the produced vegetable.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">To prevent malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">To encourage women and children of the family to participate actively in cultivation of vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">To make arrangement for extra-income by selling the surplus vegetables in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">To expand the field of co-ordination and intimacy among the members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">To maintain the quality and fertility of land for growing plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">To fulfill the interest and have rest and recreation.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The land for the garden will be levelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The area of land will be 66 metres or 36 square metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">There will be arrangement for adequate air and light There must not be any stagnant water in the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">There should have system for irrigation in the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Fence must be made around the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Generally family vegetable gardens are made according to choice of the family members.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Points to be considered for vegetable gardening are as follows:</sent>
				<sent id ="229">There should have an open area of 50 centimetres around the selected land for making fence and canals.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The rest 55 square metres of land is to be divided into five equal fragments.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Each fragment of the land is called a bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">This bed will be 5 metres in length, 80 centimetres in breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The depth of each canal will be 20-25 centimetres.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The canal of any - margin will be a bit deeper so that rain water can flow away soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">In 5 beds of the vegetable garden, fourteen kinds of vegetable can be planted throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Besides, the fence around the field can be used as bauni.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Native kidney bean, bitter gourd, bean etc. during winter season and cowpea, ghosala, heksa in the summer can be cultivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Iri the first bed, radish seed is to be sown in the first week of October.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Two weeks before collecting radish, tomato seedlings should be planted in the blank inter spaces in the same area.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Red-pot leaf is to be sown in mid February.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">This may be collected upto the third week of March.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">It can again be sown in the last week of March.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">This can be collected upto the first week of May.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Spinach should be planted in early May.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">It can be collected upto September.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">In the second bed, red-pot leaf and brinjal can be cultivated together.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Brinjal could be collected from this bed upto 15 March.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">After collecting brinjal, seeds of red-pot leaf can be sown.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Collection of red-pot leaf can be started from 15 April.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Lady's fingers should be sown in early May.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">This can be collected from 15 June upto the end of August.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Red-pot leaf is to be planted at the beginning of September.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">In the third bed, red-pot leaf is to be planted at the end of first week of September.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">It should be collected by October When its collection is completed, spinach is to be planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Garlic is to be planted at the end of November.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">After collecting garlic in early March, red-pot leaf is to be sown.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">This red-pot leaf can be collected upto April.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Data seed is to be sown at the end of first week of May.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">It can be collected upto the end of August.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">In the fourth bed, bati leaf is to be sown at the beginning of October.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">This leaf should be collected by the end of July.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The seeds of red- pot leaf should be sown in August.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">In the fifth bed, seedlings of cabbage are to be planted by 15 October.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">After completing collection of cabbage, by 15 February red pot leaf seed is to be sown.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Bitter gourd seeds are to be sown in mid-April.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">It can be collected from mid June to the end of July.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">When bitter gourd collection is completed, red pot leaf is to be sown by 15 August.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The area of a family garden is normally small.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">At first the land of the garden should be dug well by a spade.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">It should be left for 6-7 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">If there is any germ in the soil, it would be perished by the heat of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Soil lumps are to be broken into pieces after six or seven days.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Then the area of the land should be divided into beds.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Canals are to be dug between two beds.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Rotten cowdung fertilizer or wastes is to be mixed well with the soil of the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">In each bed twenty kgs of cow-dung fertilizer or rotten wastes should be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The second phase of gardening is to sow seeds or seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">It is always better to sow seedlings in rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">At this, production becomes better and the act of irrigation and putting fertilizer becomes convenient.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">It also helps to weed out the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">These seeds are very minute.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">So these should be mixed with pounded soil or ash.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">It helps sowing the seeds equally throughout the place and in right distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">The brinjal, cabbage, cauliflower, spinach, tomato, flakes of garlic, onion seedlings etc. should be sown in rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">It is better to plant the seedlings generally in the afternoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">After planting the seedlings, they should be covered by the bark of banana for three or four days.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">It is for protecting the seedlings from the heat of sunshine.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The seedlings can not tolerate the intense heat of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">These covers should be removed in the afternoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">When the seedlings are strong enough to stand on the ground with strong root, coverings are not required any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">After sowing the seeds, watering is not necessary for two or three days.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">After germination, seedlings are to be watered by a watering pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">If water is poured from a long height or in excess directly on the roots, roots are rotten.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">The soil near the roots of the plants should be loosened from time to time.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">It helps passing light and air inside the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Weeds should be eliminated.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">If the plants are thick, they should be made thin by plucking some of them out.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The diseased and weak seedlings should be plucked out and buried in the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">We should be when we put fertilizer in the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Fertilizer should not touch the roots of the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">It should be mixed with soil and put 15 centimetres away from the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">A fence should be made round the garden to protect it from the attacks of chicken, cows and goats.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">A platform is to be made for creeping of the plants like bean, borboti, gourd when they grow a little.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">There are many diseases and insects that cause, great harm to the production.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Preventive measures Ordinary mosaic Beans and Brinjal : Leaves become yellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Size of the leaves becomes smaller.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Diseased plants should be pulled out.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">The attack of the insect Jab is to be prevented.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Seedling ratting disease Tomato, Cabbage and Radish : Bottom stem of the plants are rotten.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Seedlings droop down and dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Ants and spiders eat the seeds of seed beds.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">They do harm to the soil of the roots of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Spiders and insects weave webs under the leaves and eat juice of leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">These insects come flying in swarms.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">They eat leaves and young shoots of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">One gram savin/carbaril mixed with one liter water is to be sprayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">These are vegetable perforators.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">These insects penetrate into tomato and brinjal.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">One tea spoon Repcord EC or Shimbush EC mixed with one liter water should be sprinkled.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Fly insects eat young leaves and stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Half a gram dipterex is to be mixed with one hundred grams pumpkin shoots.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Three fourths of earthen pots should be filled with this.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">should be kept with a gap of eight to twelve meters in the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Fly insects are attracted by the trap of poison and they die.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Vast land is required if anyone wants to cultivate fruit trees in the shape of a garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">So fruit trees are planted alongside the boundary walls of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">The land should be high enough so that water is not stagnant.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">The soil must be of the same sort upto 100 metres depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Holes suitable for planting fruit trees are to be dug.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Sixty centimeters broad holes should be dug for almost all the fruit trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Soil of the upper and the lower parts of the hole is to be divided into two parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The soil of the upper portion and that of the lower portion may be interchanged.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">After digging the hole, it should be dried in the sun for seven days to sterialize it.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Rotten cowdung or compost fertilizer, Una, T.S.P and ash are to be mixed with the soil of the hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">After filling the holes, the soil should be kept wet by water so that its level comes down by compression.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Soil of the hole should be loosened after one week by a weeder.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Seedlings are to be planted in the afternoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">After planting them, the soil of the hole should be made wet.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The plant should be tied with the chip of bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">It will help the plant to go straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Shade should be provided for the plant for the first few days.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Distance should be maintained while planting the seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">For Mango, jackfruit and olive trees, the distance from one plant to another is ten to twelve metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">For bilimbi, guava, wood apple, papaya etc. the distance should be from four to six meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">The roots of the soil of seedlings should be loosened from time to time.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Weeds should be eliminated.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">It should be noticed that water is not stagnant in the roots of the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">The fertilizer needed for the whole year should be divided into two portions.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">One of these portions is to be used at the end of the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">It is better not to put fertilizer while fruits are there in the trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Bottom stem of the trees should be covered with dirts or water hyacynth during draught.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Black stains are formed on different parts of the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">The branches and the flowers dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">One gram Tute and one hundred gram lime mixing with one liter water should be sprayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Dried leaves fallen under the tree should be burnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Growth of the leaves falls down.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">The size of leaves become smaller and narrow and erect upwardly.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Diseased plants should be pulled out and burnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Diseased plants should be pulled out and burnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Arrangements should be made for extraction of water from the root of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">The soil of the seed bed should be sterilized by 5% formaldehyde.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Lemon Butterfly The insects eat the leaves of trees Leaves with eggs and insects should be collected and burnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Guava Anthracnose Brown stain on the body of the guava becomes bigger & makes a sore.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">The guava which falls under the tree and the leaves should be collected and burnt.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
