<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-homeEco-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.142</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">334</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3830</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1223</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t103">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Food provides nutrition and keeps our body healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Man suffers from malnutrition because of deficiency of required nutritious food.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">For malnutrition man suffers from various diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">So we must have knowledge about food and nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">All animals need food for living.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Energy is needed for proper maintenance of external and internal functions of human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Some food like rice, fish, meat, egg, milk, vegetables, fruits, oil and sugar provide energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Nutrition is an organic process of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In this process foodstuff is digested and absorbed after eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Nutrition is the subject regarding man's health and food.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Relation of food with nutrition is very close.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Many people fill their stomach thrice a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Even then they suffer from various diseases due to lack of nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The body meets its requirement of nutrients through nutritious food.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">When we are hungry, requirement of nutrition cannot be met by filling the stomach with costly food.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Low cost food is also the sources of good nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Low cost food like pale carplet and dhala fish, pulses, leafy vegetables, molases are full of nutrient.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">It is possible to meet the requirement of nutrition at low cost when the method of taking food is known.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The word health refers to the physical and mental fitness of a person.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Food, nutrition, health and mental condition are closely related.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">When V these four conditions are properly present in a person, only then the health will be good.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Balanced diet, regular exercise, sleep, rest, open air and light are needed for good health.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Cleanliness of house, good relationship between friends and family members are also helpful for protection of good health.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The weight and height of a new born baby increase gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">New born babys bone is soft and it has fewer muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Its organs like nails, eyes, nose, lungs, kidneys, heart, digestive system etc. are tender and small in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">These development and growth in human body continue upto the age of 18 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Body decays due to daily work like walking, playing, household work and movement of muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The digestive system, blood circulation and breathing continue even when one is asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">As a result of work body always decays.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Growth and repair of the body take place by some food like meat, egg, milk and pulses.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">In this work some minerals and vitamins are playing a vital role.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Coal, diesel and petrol are needed for driving cars and trains.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">These are burnt and converted into mechanical power.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Car and trains are driven by this power.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Human body can be compared to an engine.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Energy is needed for functions of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The function of food is to provide this energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Oil, ghee, butter, rice, flour, sugar, molasses produce heat in our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">This heat is converted info energy to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">In our body food is important for forming anti-bodies, which increase the power of resistance to diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Again lack of sufficient and balanced food makes our body weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">For this reason, man is easily attacked by various types of diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">All foods do not contain these components in equal amount.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Some food contains one or two of these components in large amount.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Some food contains only one component.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">For example- sugar is rich in carbohydrate and oil is rich in fat.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">For this reason intake of all types of food keep the body healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Protein, vitamins, minerals and water are responsible components for bodybuilding, growth and repairing of tissues.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Fat, carbohydrate and protein are heat and energy providing components.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">On the other hand vitamins, minerals, protein and water are the responsible components for protecting the body against diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Protein is a component of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The protein found in fish, meat, egg, milk is called animal protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Therefore according to sources protein is divided into two groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">After having meal, food is digested and amino acid is found from protein breakdown.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">There are 20 types of amino acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">10 types of amino acid are essential for the development and growth of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">These essential amino acid is found in animal protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">So animal protein is better than vegetable protein in terms of quality and standard.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The body muscles, skins, blood, nerves, bones etc. are made of protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The protein makes up the loss that the body suffers due to daily activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Protein helps to produce antibody in the body and increase the power of resistance to diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">A child's body does not develop and grow properly owing to deficiency of animal protein in its food.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Beside, weight loss, skinny health, diarrhoea, irritation and retardation of intelligence are also found because of this deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">It is energy producing component.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It is found in rice, wheat, maize, potato, sugar, molasses, honey, green and ripe fruits and vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Rice is our staple food.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Carbohydrate found in rice, wheat, potato, green fruits and vegetables is known as starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">After having rice, bread etc. starch in this food is digested and broken to form glucose.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Fibres of green and leafy vegetables and fruits are also a type of carbohydrate and are called cellulose.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The main function of starchy food in the body is to provide energy by producing heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Sugar, molasses, honey and fruit juice enhance the taste of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The cellulose in food relieves constipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">When human body suffers from shortage of carbohydrate for a long time, weight loss takes place.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Men lose energy to work and become weaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">On the other hand excess amount of carbohydrate intake causes fat deposition, which ultimately increases body weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Over weight is harmful for health.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Fat is one of six components of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The food containing fat is known as fatty food.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Vegetable oil, ghee, butter, dalda, tallow are fatty food.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Fat exists in liquid and solid condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Fat is available from both animal and vegetable sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The main function of fat is to maintain body temperature by producing heat and providing energy for work.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Other functions are to improve taste of food and to save children from skin disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">If excess amount of fatty food is taken, this fat stores in the body and increases body weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">An adult person suffers from various diseases if he becomes obese.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The unit of measuring the heat produced from food is Kilocalorie.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">One gram of fat provides nine Kilocalorie.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">One gram of carbohydrate and one gram of protein each provides four Kilocalorie heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Vitamins are very important components for nutrition of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Vitamins are found in animal and vegetable kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Those vitamins, which are easily dissolved in fat, are known as fat-soluble vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Vitamin A, D, E and K are fat-soluble.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Sometimes we cook these vitamin rich foods in small amount of oil in a pan without lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">In those cases the vitamin mixes with oil and disappears in the air as vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">If it is cooked in deep oil or in a pan with lid, then the loss of vitamin is less.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The vitamins, which are easily dissolved in water, are known as water- soluble vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Vitamin B and C are water-soluble.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Vitamin A is necessary for keepi ng good heal th.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It increases the resistance power to fight diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Local coloured fruits like ripe mango and jack fruit etc. are also the good sources of vitamin A.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Vitamin A maintains the healthy condition of eyes and skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It helps the normal growth of teeth and bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It also increases the resistance power to diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Due to lack of vitamin A man suffers from eyesight weakness.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">It may lead to night blindness, dryness of eye and early blindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">It is a fat-soluble vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">It is found mainly in animal sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Vitamin D is also : found in green vegetables grown in sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Animal milk extracting from cows and goats, which graze under the sun, contains vitamin D.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This makes the bone of the baby strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Vitamin D plays an important role in the normal development of bone and teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Lack of Vitamin D bends the bones of babies.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Rib cage protrudes out.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Leg bones are crooked.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The skull looks like a square box.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">This condition is called rickets.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Rickety children start walking late.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">In case of adults, shortage of vitamin D makes the bone weak and brittle.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">It hampers their walking.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Women suffer from backache.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Vitamin E is found in green leafy vegetables, sweet peas, sprouted gram, soyabean, egg yolk, liver, milk etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Vitamin K is found in spinach (palong sag), cauliflower, cabbage, tomato, soyabean, sea-fish, egg, milk, liver etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Many kinds of vitamin when combined together are known as vitamin B-Complex.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">In vitamin B- Complex, vitamin B1 or thiamine, vitamin B2 or riboflavin, niacin and folic acid are important.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Vitamin B- Complex keeps the cell of eyes, skins and nerves healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Deficiency of thiamine causes beriberi.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Red layer on rice and outer layer of wheat contain thiamine.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It is a water-soluble vitamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This vitamin helps in healing cuts and wounds of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Due to lack of vitamin C wounds take longer time to heal.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Vitamin C keeps the gum healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">It helps to maintain the resistance power to diseases in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Similarly vitamin C is lost if vegetables are boiled in water and the water is discarded.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Vitamin C is lost when fruits and foods are stored for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Vitamin C protecting against scurvy.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It also keeps teeth, gum and muscles ,strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Vitamin C protects us against cold and cough.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">It increases resistance power against diseases and help in the formation of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">There are some components in food, which exist in the body as a form of chemical salts.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">So these components are known as minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Minerals are of different kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">For the nourishment of body calcium, phosphorus, iron, and iodine are very important minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Besides sodium, potassium, magnesium, chlorine, florin, copper and zinc are also necessary for the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Minerals are maintaining the different physiological functions by keeping body's internal system in perfect condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">It is necessary for the protection of different organs like teeth, bones, blood cells and glands of the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Calcium and vitamin D together work to form teeth and bones in the body of child.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Its deficiency causes rickets.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Phosphorus is found in milk, curd, egg, meat, small fish with bone, soyabean, pulses, spinach, radish, carrot, cucumber, cauliflower etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Phosphorus like calcium helps in the formation of teeth and bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">It also helps in the formation of nails, hair and bones in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">It is found in egg yolk, liver, coloured leafy vegetables, molasses grains etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Iron forms haemoglobin in blood and body cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">In iron deficiency haemoglobin level is low in blood, which results in anaemia.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Some symptoms of anaemia are loss of appetite and weakness.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Water retains in the body and resistance power to diseases diminishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">One suffers from various types of diseases due to iron deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Iodine is essential for nutrition of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Many kinds of problems are found in the body due to iodine deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Deficiency of iodine causes disease known as goitre.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">For proper physical and mental development sufficient amount of iodine in diet is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Deficiency of iodine causes mental weakness and inertia.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The number of children suffering from retardation and goitre is increasing seriously in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">It is essential to take iodised salt for protection.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Iodine is not founds in all foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The green leafy vegetables and fish grown in the areas and water adjacent to the sea contain iodine.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The seaweed and the sea fish are good sources of iodine.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">70 percent of body weight is water.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">This water is distributed inside and outside the cell of blood, muscle, bone, skin, tooth, nail etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">One should drink 6-8 glasses of pure water daily.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Water requirement can be met from vegetables, fruits and liquid foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In the body water helps in digestion and absorption of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">It regulates the body temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">It maintains the liquid condition of blood and removes constipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">It also removes the toxic agent of the body through sweat, urine and stool.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The Bangladeshi people like some food in every day meals.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">These are: Rice, wheat, maize, potato Vegetables, fruits Fish, meat, egg, milk, pulses, beans and groundnuts .</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Different kinds of component are found in different kinds of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">It is necessary to know which food contains which component.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">fish is rich in protein, so fish is a protein type food.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Like this rice is carbohydrate and vegetables are vitamin type food.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Rice is the staple food in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">We get maximum energy from rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">76 percent of rice is starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Other nutrients are protein, fat, minerals and vitamins.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Red bran of parboiled rice made by hasking pedale contains vitamins.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Boiled rice is more nutritious than milled rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">If the starchy water is discarded after cooking rice, nutrients are wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">So it is necessary to cook rice without discarding the starchy water.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Rice products like puffed rice, rice flax and popped rice are suitable for snacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Various types of cakes are made from rice flour.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Wheat is a carbohydrate type food.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">We get atta, refine flour and semolina by grinding wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Wheat is mainly starchy food.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Other nutrients like protein, fat, minerals, vitamins etc. are also found in wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Whole-wheat flour is more nutritious than refine flour.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Bread, biscuit, vermicelli, noodles etc are prepared from different kinds of wheat flour.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Broken wheat mixed and cooked with meat and pulses makes Halim.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Semolina is very nutritious for babies.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Maize is a crop with yellow coloured grain.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">From nutritional point of view it is similar to wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">It is cultivated on a small scale in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">It is in the category of starchy food.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Maize contains more fat and protein, so it provides as much energy as rice and wheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">It also contains starch, small amount of minerals and vitamins.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Green tender maize can be used as vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Boiled green tender maize is used in preparing soup.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">In our country matured maize is mostly eaten by roasting it.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Popcorn is made from maize.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Bread, biscuits, cakes etc are prepared from corn flour.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">It plays an important role in the production of heat and energy in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Food prepared Quality of protein improves if various kinds of pulse are cooked together.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Animal protein is very costly, so most of the people meet their requirement of protein from pulses and small fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">It helps the body more if pulses are eaten after being cooked properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Grounded pulses are easily cooked.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Different types of dishes like bara, beguni, halua, cake (pitha), chatpati etc. can be prepared from pulses.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The dried seeds of beans are called legumes.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Sweet peas, different kinds of bean seeds, soyabean and dried peas are included in this legume category.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Theses are good sources of protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Like pulses, legumes contain vitamins, minerals, fat and carbohydrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Its nutritive value increases if it is eaten after being cooked with other vegetables, fish or meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">It is the good source of vegetable protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Roasted groundnuts are good for the growing children.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Fat, vitamins, and small amount of minerals are found in groundnut.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">It contains more fat, so it provides more energy to the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Besides oil is obtained from groundnut.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Seasonal dried groundnut can be stored in covered container for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">But if storage groundnut comes in contact with air, fungus and pungent smell develop.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Vegetables are vitamin rich food.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Various kinds of vegetables are grown in different seasons in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Carotene is found in yellow, orange and green coloured vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Carotene produces vitamin A in our body.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Fresh vegetables and sour fruits contain more vitamin C. Vegetables should be washed before being cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">It should be cut into large pieces and then cooked in small amount of water with little spices.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Carrot, beat root, cabbage, tomato, cucumber, radish, lettuce and some fresh green leafy vegetables should be kept in daily menu.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Vegetables play a very significant role in increasing the resistance power to diseases in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Salad made from fresh raw vegetables is a very useful food item.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">In our country we get fruits in all seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Sour fruits like hog plum (amra), bilimbi, guava, pummelo (batabilabu), pineapple etc. contain large amount of vitamin C.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">It is necessary to keep some fresh fruits in our daily menu.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Because fruits meet the need of water, relieve constipation and increase the resistance power to diseases in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">In the body fruit's carbohydrates provide energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Jam, jelly, custard etc. are also prepared from fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Fish is the best source of animal protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Fats, vitamins and minerals are also found in fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Besides these sea fish contains iodine.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Vitamin A and vitamin D are obtained from liver and oil of sea fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Rui, carp (katal), flounder (boal), humped featherback (chitai) etc are big fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Olive barb (puti), tengra, pale carplet (mala), dhala, river shad (chapila) etc. are small fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Calcium and phosphorus are found in the bone of small fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Dried fish contains more protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Fish is a perishable food.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">After catching fish early preservation should be arranged.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Ice preserves fish well.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Fish fibre is very soft and it does not take long time to cook.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Fish plays a significant role in formation and maintenance of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Besides this, fats, minerals and vitamins are found in meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Meat plays an important role in the formation and maintenance of our body and in producing energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Meat takes more time than fish in cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Because meat fibre is thicker than fish and strongly linked.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Meat protein is , coagulated at high temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">So it should be cooked at low temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Commonly we eat the eggs of hens and ducks.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">All nutrients for the formation of the body are present in eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Egg protein is high quality protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">It also contains fats, minerals and vitamins.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">The amount of protein is more in the white portion of egg.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The egg yolk contains fats, minerals, vitamins and protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Boiled eggs, omelette, poached are common processed items of eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Besides other nutritious foods like custard and pudding are also prepared from eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Eggs are also used in making sandwitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">We drink the milk of cows, goats, and buffaloes.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The nutrients that are essential for the development, growth and maintenance of the body are all present in milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">So milk can be called complete food.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The protein of milk is very high quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">After birth mother's milk is main feed for babies.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Colostrum is found in mother's first milk which provides the resistance powers and protects the child from various diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">87 percent of milk is water.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The rest portion is composed of proteins, fats, vitamins and minerals.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Butter, ghee, posset, cheese, sweet curd, pudding, custard etc. are prepared from milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Fresh milk should be boiled before drinking to make it germ free.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Vitamins in milk are destroyed if it is kept under the sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">So container of milk is to be kept covered.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Milk should not be kept for more than two hours at room temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">It would be better if it is kept in refrigerator.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Even today many misconceptions about selection of food exist which are the outcome of family traditions and habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">These baseless beliefs and ideas are known as misconceptions or superstitions about food.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Today we have knowledge about food.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">But men are suffering from malnutrition due to the influence of superstitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">In Malaysia during pregnancy protein food like fish, chicken, egg, milk are not given.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">It is feared that the baby will acquire animal like habits or suffer from asthma.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">In India there is a misconception that eggs cause jaundice in babies.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">During pregnancy women are given less than required food.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Beside this they are not allowed to eat cucumber, as it would crack the baby's skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Eating of ash gourd is prohibited in the fear that the body's hair will upright like pumpkin's stings.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Green coconut was not given for fear that the, colour of the child's eyes would be dull.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Pair of bananas were not allowed during pregnancy due to fear of twins.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">There are many imaginary stories about eating fish during pregnancy.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">It was thought that the child's face would be like sheat fish if this fish was eaten in pregnancy.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The body wriggles inside the womb if pregnant mother eats spinyeel fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Eating of mutton would cause abundant growth-of hair on the baby's body.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Under the influence of these misconceptions pregnant mothers are deprived of best quality animal protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">As a result mothers are reduced to skeletons and they lose physical strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Due to lack of protein and calorie pregnant women give birth to low weight and malnourished babies with below intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Lactating mothers are not escaped from the influence of these superstitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Chillies, potato, mashed green plantain, vegetables and soft rice are given to lactating mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">It is blind faith of every body that these diets improve the lactating mothers health quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">It also becomes harder to recover the health of lactating mothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">After the baby's birth, it is not allowed to drink mother's initial milk or colostrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">The elderly thinks-that this milk is harmful for baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">During the first 6 months after birth mother's milk is the only diet for the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">But many people think these foods are forbidden for the children upto the age of 2 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">It is considered that if rice and pulses are given to the child, their belly would become large.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">The child would not be able to digest vegetables and fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">If these food are given to the child stomach would be upset.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Under the influence of these ideas only milk-based foods and rice porridge are given to the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">As a result deficiency of protein, vitamins and minerals are developed in the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">The child suffers from malnutrition related diseases like night blindness, kwashiorkor and marasmus etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Many children die prematurely.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Men are not born with these misconceptions.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">These misconceptions grow in human mind due to the influence of family traditions, environment and social norms.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Scientifically true conception and knowledge about food and nutrition will help in removing these wrong ideas.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">In this matter radio, television and newspapers can play a very significant role.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">By including content on nutrition in the curriculum of schools and colleges it is possible to remove the existing misconceptions.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Man is a slave to habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">If correct habits about food are developed since childhood proper attitude towards food is developed in a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">If a child grows up with selective eating habit, this habit may continue.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Correct knowledge about the quality of different foods will not allow misconceptions about foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">For the development of good habits about foods, the following matters should be taken into consideration.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">After 6 months, it is necessary to give supplementary food side by side with mother's milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Food should contain all the nutrients according to the requirement of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">At first any new food should be given to a child in small quantity.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">When they adjust with the new food the amount of food should be gradually increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Everybody should make the habit of eating the available seasonal foods.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
