<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-homeEco-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.108</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">290</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3652</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1062</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t102">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Family is the most primitive institution.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">There are differences of opinion regarding the origin of family.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Many people think that men lived in small families from the primitive period.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Some social scientists think that initially people lived in groups to protect themselves from the attack of wild animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Afterwards, they were divided in small families.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The characterstics of a family is found in the animal world too.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Some people conceive the idea that family originated from that time when men accepted cultivation as a profession.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Men were inspired to form families by the ties of love, affection, intimacy etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">A family is a social organisation.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Human race had been evolved from this organisation.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">A family starts through the marriage of a man with a woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">A family expands gradually through the birth of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">According to Nimcock, a social scientist, on the whole a family is an organisation formed by husband and wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It may or may not have children.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">If we analyse any family, we will find the following characterstics.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In this type of family, the authority of mother is more than that of the father.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Sons and daughters are known by the identity of the mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">In a maternal family, a husband by the bond of marriage has to live with the family of the wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">In this type of family, a daughter inherits much property from her mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Some maternal families are still found among V tribal people in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Most of the families of Bangladesh are of paternal type.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Father is the head of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Children are known by his identity.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Important decisions are taken by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Members of the family work according to his liking.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">A single family is formed with husband, wife and children.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">This type of family is found more in urban areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">In modern time, the number of single families is increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Along with the expansion of industrial mills and factories, village people are being split up from joint families.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">They are coming to the town with the hope of getting job or employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">They are forming single families and living in town.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Mother, father, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, grand father and grand mother live jointly in the same house.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The collection of a few single families is called a joint family.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Blood relation is the linking source of this type of family.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">An elderly person exercises authority over other members in a joint family.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Members of the family abide by his instructions.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He makes arrangement to meet up the demands of all the members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">There is demand of manpower for agricultural activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">For this reason, the number of joint families are even now much more in rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">One of the aims of marriage is to multiply generation through breeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">This is the biological activity of a family.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">A child grows up gradually with the care and nursing of parents and other members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Family is the primary centre of education for children.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Besides formal education, a child learns good manners and modesty from other members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">It is the responsibility of the family to teach them what is good and what is bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It is also the responsibility of the family to develop attitude for justice, kindness and other social and moral values.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">A family provides economic security to its members.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The parents and elder members of the family earn money.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Other members of the family try to make economic progress of the family by doing different vocational jobs.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The members of the family can participate in different economic activities like sewing, cooking, gardening, cottage industries etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">It is the responsibility of the family to maintain good relationship among different members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">This relationship inspires the members to work unitedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">It will also make them conscious of their rights and duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">It is the responsibility of the family to develop the attitude of kindness, love, affection, fellow-feeling etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">It is also its responsibility to teach ho to take into consideration the mentality of others in behaving with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">A society consists of some families.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Man is a social being.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He cannot live alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">He lives either in small or large groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Even in primitive period men lived in groups in order to save themselves from the attack of wild ferocious animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Man lives a social life in order to meet the basic needs and have peace and security.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">So society consists of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Society is formed with such institutions as family, tribe, community etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Each and every human being lives in some sorts of these societ ies.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Men help one another in t ime of any trouble or danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The main objective of a society is the development and welfare of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The importance of society in a man's life is unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">To perform the activities of one's everyday life properly and those of the family, social institutions have been organized.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Some of these institutions are-job center offices, law-courts, schools, colleges, hospitals, mosques, temples, churches, parks, libraries etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The objective of all these social institutions is the overall development of human lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">These institutions provide ample opportunities for men to live a decent life.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In every society, there are some manners, customs, laws and prohibitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The rights and duties of each member of the society is to abide by these rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">On the other hand some sorts of behaviour are not acceptable in any society.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">A person is humiliated and criticised in the society if he does not abide by the rules of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Many times, he is tried by social laws and punished.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">This kind of society is called the sound or the ideal society.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Those who carry on social laws also abide by the laws of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">A family is built up for nourishing and developing children.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The objective of the society is to develop terms of relationship among people.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">This relationship helps fulfilling the purposes of each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Both family and society consist of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">In spite of having relationship between the two, there are also some differences in terms of size and shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Family is a small unit of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Family is the base of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The initial source of family life is a man and a woman or a husband & a wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">A family consists of husband wife, children and other relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The members of the family live in the same house.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Family does not include any institution.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">7 Mutual relationship among the members of the family is based on blood relation.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">8 The activities of the family are governed by social systems and manners.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The change in structure of the family depends on social changes or social evolution.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Society is a small unit of the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Society is the base of the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The first molecule of the social life is the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">A society is composed of some families.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Different members of the society live in different houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Each society is controlled by its own rules and regulations.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The change in social structure depends on the development or advancement of science.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Duties and Responsibilities o Family is a small organisation of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Here lives the members whose age range is from a child to the old.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Everybody's demand is different.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The objective of a family is to build a happy environment by fulfilling the demands of all the members.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Co-operation of the members is necessary for managing different activities of the family in a disciplined manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">If everyone discharges his/her duties, extra burden of labour is not imposed upon a single person.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Because in those families, members are not conscious of their own duties and responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Family peace is the result of joint effort -this should be realised by the members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Only then, family life would be peaceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">In a family, either father or mother bears the responsibilities of the head of the household.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The responsibility of earning livelihood is vested on the father.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">If mother is a service holder, she also spends money for the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The responsibility of expenditure lies on both of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Responsibilities of bringing up children and providing food are borne by mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Education and medical care of the children lie on both father and mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The parents try untiringly to guide their children in a good way by teaching them good manners and behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">In a family, children follow their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Parents should present themselves as ideal image of characters to their children.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">It will help the children to cherish these qualities in their characters.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">They can build themselves up in future as responsible and self-sufficient citizens of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">They keep an eye on their feedings.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The parents nurse them when they are ill.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">They are also alert on meeting up their other needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The overall responsibility of the parents is to develop bondage of good relationship among the members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">In a family generally the relationship among brothers and sisters is very close.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">They should carry out the orders of the elders and obey the rules and regulations of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Elder brothers and sisters would be sympathetic to the youngers.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">They would be affectionate to the juniors.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The juniors will show respect and love to their seniors.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Elder brothers and sisters will help the youngers in their studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Usually the elder sisters take care of their younger brothers and sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Besides this, as girls, they help their mother in different household activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">They discharge their duties by helping their mothers giving breakfast to the guests and making rooms tidy.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">When anyone in the family is sick, girls in the family help him/her in nursing.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Responsibilities of the boys are a bit different.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">In their early age, they can put their books and clothes in order.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">When they grow up, they can work with their father outside the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">They can go to market and take their younger brothers and sisters to schools.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Boys help their fathers in gardening at home and cleaning yards and fields outside the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">They can take part in rendering services to them and nursing them.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Thus they can give relief to some extent to their parents from pressure of duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Grand fathers and grand mothers can give well-thought opinions in many important affairs of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Their deep affection and care for their grand sons and daughters are very much valuable.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Educated grand fathers and grand mothers can supervise the studies of their grand sons and daughters.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Sometimes they lake the responsibility of sending their grand children to schools and bring them back home.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">They give wise opinions regarding Grandson, granddaughter gossiping with grandfather and grandmother marriage of their grand children.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">They should obey them and gossip with them from time to time.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">It helps developing mutual relationship.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">On the other hand, the grand fathers and grand mothers think that they are important persons of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">As a result, the feeling of loneliness is removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Uncles and'aunts and their children are found to live together in a joint family.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">If they are senior in age in the family, they take the responsibility of the head of the household.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Other members of the family will show respect and devotion to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">They will give importance to their opinions.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Uncles and aunts will also treat their children and nephews and nieces equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">They will govern the house keeping an eye to the problems of all the members.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">There may be quarrel and misunderstanding among the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">They will help to preserve the joint property of the family thinking that it is their own property.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Uncle along with the father will also earn money for economic solvency.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Uncle and aunt will also try to provide education to all the children and help building up honest character.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">They will also teach children to abide by the rules of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">In a family other relatives also live besides paternal aunt and maternal uncle and aunt.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">They can help in bringing up of small children and their studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It is also their responsibility to help the housewife in cooking, tiding up the rooms and entertaining guests.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Male members can go to market and can help the head of the family in cleaning the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Sometimes they can even take the responsibility of sending children to schools and bringing them back home from school.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Other members will pay due respect to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">They will utter no words which may shock them.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Rather they will try to fulfill their demands in accordance with their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">They will not ignore them thinking that they are the unwanted members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Every child is an important member of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">During their infancy they cannot talk, do not understand what is wrong and what is right.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">They cannot take part in any activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">For this reason, they cannot be ignored in any way.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Every child has a definite position in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">They have also demands as the elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">It is the responsibility of the members of the family to know their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">They should build them up as ideal citizens of the country by fulfilling their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">In many families it is found that all the children do not get equal treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Usually the eldest child receives much more love and affection from parents and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">It should be remembered that all the children have the same demand to the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">There are variations in scopes and privileges in terms of boys and girls in a family.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">A child is treated this way with the hope of earning in a lower middle class family.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">According to the convention of heritage, this kind of example is found even in educated families.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">A child has the sense of self respect even at a tender age.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Sometimes odd things of the family are discussed in presence of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">It is thought that they will not comprehend the contents.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">They take it to heart and lose respect for the elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">During discussion of this sort, presence of the child should be taken into account.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">When they are grown up, they should join the elders in important discussion of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">This way, they will feel that they are important persons of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">As a result a sense of responsibility towards the family will grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Besides the parents, the other members of the family play roles in fulfilling the demands of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">During their infancy, children are dependent on their elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">If these demands are fulfilled rightly during infancy, a sense of confidence for the members of the family is developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The children can trust them.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">When they are grown up, this trust helps them building their confidence in others.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">A family is the primary school for education of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Inquisitiveness is much more in childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The members of the family should give right answers to the questions of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">It helps expanding the knowledge of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">They become interested in study.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">It is the duty of the guardians to send their children to school time.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">To supervise what they learn in school is also the duty of the guardians.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Immediately after birth, children should be given required immunizing vaccinations and injections.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Games should be arranged for them to keep their body and mind sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">If they are ill, they should be provided with proper treatment in due time.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Love and affection of the elders to the children are reflected through different activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">These are- feeding the children, lulling them to sleep, getting them dressed etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">If these are done cordially and with care, children enjoy it and cooperate with the elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">A sweet relationship between the children and other members of the family is developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">It is their responsibility to set up the characters of ideal men before the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">It is nothing but polite attitude of human beings which is expressed in their mode of speaking and behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The manner that is polite is good manners.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">A man of good manners commands respect from the people of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He wins the heart of the people easily by gentle behaviour and good manners.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Education is the root of good manners.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Education makes a man polite and gentle.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Good manners cannot be taught verbally or by bookish knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Family is the primary centre of learning politeness and good manners.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Later on, when they go to school, they learn good manners from the teachers and senior students.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">They also learn good manners from their play-mates and the coach of the play ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Children are fond of imitating others.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Later on, they also show such manners to their seniors.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">They become kind to others too and behave compassionately.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Children do not have power to justify right or wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">They learn good manners from their parents and other relatives by following their ideals.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Generally the offsprings of gentle family become gentle and polite in their dealings.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">There may be some exceptions for some reasons or others.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">In family and in society a sweet relationship is established by the courteous behaviour with each others.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Man people think that they have money.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">So they are superiors.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">They also think that those who are less powerful, they will tolerate whatever they will do.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">This type of behaviour is contradictory to modesty.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">But if a man is too much modest, he becomes an annoying stock to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">It is a sign of foolishness to keep silent when it is necessary to give opinion.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">They should talk with the teachers in a humble tone.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">One can be modest with all these qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">When anyone offers compliments to a known person first and enquires after his health, it is the sign of gentility.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">No money is spent to behave gently with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">When elders or seniors are there, they should leave their own seats and get the elders seated.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">All these are the signs of gentility.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Even in the school, while showing manners to the teachers, they get chances to learn gentility.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">An unmannerly person is undesired to everyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">While living together, if anyone thinks about his own interest only, he will be recognised as a self-centred fellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">One should think about the advantages and disadvantages of others and act accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">There are many who listens to the radio with a high volume for their own recreation.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">They do not consider that there is an examinee who is studying in the next room.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">One should give up the attitude of fulfilling one's own interest and causing harm to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">People must co-operate with one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">They should be sympathetic to one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The objective of governing a family is to build a happy home through love, affection and respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Contribution of all the members of the family cannot be equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">There are some who can work hard, some lack the spirit of toiling.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Some may have too much tolerance, some may have less patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Some may lack norms in their manners.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">So before judging a person, the points mentioned above should be taken into consideration.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">In -that case no misunderstanding or confusion is developed among the members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Besides parents, grand fathers, grand mothers uncles, aunts and other aged relatives may live in a family.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Many of them may refrain from doing any work because of the burden of age or illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">They should not be considered, by no reason, a burden of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">They are respectable members of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">They should be taken care of according to their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Importance should be given to their likings and they should be respected.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">If the aged persons of the family are able to work, they will take the responsibility of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Though they cannot earn money, they can give their opinions regarding home management.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">During their leisure time, they should sit and gossip with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">They should carry on their orders and help them in their works.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The children should offer salam to the teachers when they meet them at school.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">They should obey the orders and advice v of the teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">They should listen to the teachers attentively in the classroom.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The children write the sentence- Always speak the truth- many times in their copy books to improve handwriting.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">But later on, they do not keep their promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">From this the children learn to deceive their friends and to tell a lie with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Parents and other members should speak the truth to their children and should keep their promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Children should be taught from the early childhood that they should confess their guilt if they do anything wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">If they use anything without the knowledge of the authority, they should inform the guardian about it in due time.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">To speak the truth is a great virtue and to tell a lie is a great vice.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">It is the duty of all human beings to follow this policy.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">A truthful man is respected by all even if he is poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Everybody hates a liar.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">If children are taught these lesson from their very childhood, truthfulness, the great virtue will be deepseated in their character.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">The example of truthfulness is found among the members of those families where religious teaching is parctised.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Interest for doing this work should be developed among the children from their childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">If they watch their parents and relatives to do this work, they will follow their ideals.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Later on, they will be interested to do this noble work.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">For examples- Medals and certificates for good results in schools will make student enthusiastic to do work better.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Side by side, they should know what are the evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">From the very childhood, they should learn to justify good and bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">From the delight of doing any work in groups, the permanent eagerness to do that work is developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Gardening together with the members of the family is an experience of good work.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
