<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-homeEco-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.202</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">242</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2865</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">967</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t105">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In their physical, mental and social development playing materials play an important role.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Toys made of cloth, light smooth wood, soft rubber etc. are safe for the babies.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Toys must be colourful and the colour must be fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">It should be light.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Cutting out all sides with a scissors.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Then keeping the shape intact it should be closed with back-stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">On any side 2.5 cm space is to be kept for turning it inside out.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Then turning it inside out.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">After turning cotton or small pieces of cloth are stuffed to give shape of the doll.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">After stuffing cotton tightly, the cloth on the open-end side is to be folded inside and closed by stitching.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Then eyes, nose, face, hair etc. are to be drawn with black colour or black thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Those babies who normally remain sitting or sleeping for them rattles are suitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">All type of rattle must have certain specialities like: It will ring and produce sweet sounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The handle should be smooth and round so that it may not hurt the baby's hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">It must be made of cloth, smooth soft cane and rubber or light smooth wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">It should not be large or heavy.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Procedure for making rattle: Take a smooth thin round cane of 87cm in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">A circle of 20cm diametre has to be made at the middle of the cane.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Excluding the circle, equal length of cane has to be kept on both sides for the handle.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Portions of the cane on both the sides have to be brought together and tied tightly with coloured thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The handle has to be covered completely with the same binding.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Length of the rattle's handle will be 12 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">To make the binding smooth and soft coloured or printed soft cotton cloth can be wrapped around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Like the handle the circular portion is to be wrapped with thread or cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In the blank space between two ornamental bells coloured ribbons are to be hanged.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">In the kitchen various kinds of activities are performed at the time of cooking like cutting, washing, cooking serving etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Metallic utensils of various kinds are used for these jobs.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Measuring utensils- Teaspoon, tablespoon, cup, glass, and one set measuring utensils.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">In the kitchen utensils made of aluminium, stainless steel, glass, iron, melamine, bamboo, wood, earth etc. are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">But for cooking aluminium utensils are mostly used.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Deep fry pan of iron is suitable for frying.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">There is a possibility of food becoming toxic if sour-tasting food is cooked in iron or copper pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">All utensils should be washed cleanly and dried after use.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">If rubbed with ash and then washed with soap and water, aluminium utensils remain clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Stainless steel, glass, melamine, bamboo and cane utensil, become clean with soap and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Hot water and soap is to be used for removing oil from utensils.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">After washing, all kinds of utensilis are to be kept in the rack or shelf.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">By this water is drained easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">These are readily available when needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Some utensils are used occasionally.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">So those should be wiped and kept clean for future uses.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Some fruits and green vegetables are used in salad and eaten raw by us.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">But most of the foods are eaten after cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">To make the foods easily digestible Fish, meat, vegetables, rice, pulses when eaten after cooking well are digested easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">More nutritive value is found in the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">To enhance the taste, smell and nutritional value of foods-Different ingredients and spices are used in cooking food.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">So the taste, smell and nutritive value of food increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Besides this food's essence comes out and increases the taste and smell due to cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The foods are cooked by different procedures.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">When we cook we must keep in mind that the nutritive value of each food should remain at the maximum.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Before cutting vegetables are to be washed.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">They are to be cut in pieces as big as possible after peeling.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Vegetables should not be kept open for long time after cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">It must be put on the oven for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">In-cooking vegetables small quantity of water is to be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The water should not be drained after boiling.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Foods are to be cooked in the covered pan.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Food should be kept on the oven for the time as needed to be cooked.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">If food is cooked for a longer period the colour, shape, smell and taste change.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Besides this diminishes the nutritive value of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Vitamins of rice dissolve in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">So rice should not be washed many times and its starch should not be drained.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">It should not be stirred excessively when cooking food.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">When cooking the person should wear her clothes tightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The hair should be tied securely.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The best habit is to wear apron while cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">If sharee's end, modesty scarf, ribbon of hair are kept disorderly then there is possibility of catching fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Cotton pad or potholder should be used while taking down the pot from the oven.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Modesty scarf or saree's end should never be used for this purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">It should be covered with the lid when oil in the frying pan catches fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Never pour water on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">When cooking is over the oven should be turned off.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Desire and all satisfaction of eating depends upon neat, clean and orderly serving of foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Besides due to attractive serving, ordinary foods become tasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">For serving food the place and necessary utensils should be washed and .wiped</sent>
				<sent id ="76">According to menu necessary utensils should be available for serving foods e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Foods on the table are to be arranged in proper way.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">There should not be any difficulty in reaching the required dish.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Glass full to the brim with water should not be placed on the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The water may spill and spoil the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">While filling the glass with water top 2-3 cm. of the glass should be kept empty.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The server should always serve the food from the left side.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Low level flower vase should be kept on the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The flower vase should not block the faces of those seated around the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">When the meal is over, all utensils should be removed in a tray.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Necessary utensils like glass, plate, spoon, napkin should be placed on both sides of the table in buffet system.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Serving dishes are also to be placed on both sides of the table so that these are easily accessible.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Buffet system is better when number of persons is more and the space is small.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Because more chairs are not required for sitting in this system.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Normally people eat food standing.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">In case of need few chairs can be placed in one corner of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">We use liquid food like; sherbat, coconut water, juice etc. besides pure plain water for meeting bodys need of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">These are called drinks.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Drinks are very useful during summer, Ramadan and fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Lemon should be washed and cut into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The lemon seeds are to be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Juice is to be extracted by squeezing with hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Water and sugar are to be mixed with the lemon juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">It can also be served by putting ice chips.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Then it is to be strained with a bamboo or wire strainer.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">If it is very thick then more water is to be added.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Curd is to be whipped.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Milk or whipped curd is to be mixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">After mixing rose water and ice chips, the wood apple sherbat is ready to be served.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Many people like the sherbat without rose water and milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Peel the green mango and slice it.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">After mashing the mango slice juice can be extracted.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">3 cups of water and 1 cup of sugar or syrup are to be mixed with the mango juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">A little colour is to be added before serving.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Mango sherbat is to be served after adding ice.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Cold water and syrup are to be mixed after whipping the curd.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Less of syrup or sugar is to be mixed if the curd is sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">To be served after putting ice chips.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">If desired little salt can be added.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">It will make 2 servings.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Snacks are sered normally in the morning and sometimes in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">These are also made when guests come to the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Many time heavy foods are arranged as snacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Beside this light foods of various kinds are also welcome as snacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Recipes of some snacks are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Boiled eggs are to be grated by a grater.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The cucumber is to be cut thinly or scraped by a scraper.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Tomato is to be cut thinly.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Except bread all ingredients and tomato are to be mixed together.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Mayonnaise is to be spread on two slices of bread.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">On one piece of bread all the grated ingredients with eggs are to be spread with knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Over this the thin sliced tomato should be spread.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Then this is to be covered with the other piece of bread and then pressed with the palm of hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">All sides of breads are to be cut evenly with a knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Then cut into halves or diagonally to give it the shape of sandwich.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">From one pound of bread nearly 10 pieces of sandwich would be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">It will make 10 servings.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">After peeling the potatoes these should be cut in the chips cutting machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Besides potato should be sliced very thinly by a sharp knife if machine is not available.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The sliced potatoes are to be soaked in the salt water for 15-20 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">When these are dried oil is to be heated in a fry pan.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Then all potatoes will be fried if bubble is appearing in oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Chips are to be taken out from oil by a slotted spoon when the potatoes are fried crisp.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Then placed on a paper, which absorb oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Some salt is sprinkled on potato chips.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">After peeling the skin of potatoes these should be cut into finger size strips.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">These should be soaked in salt water for some time after cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">After 10-15 minutes these should be taken out of salt water and then dried in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Wiping with a cloth can make them dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Till the colour becomes light brown it should be deep oil fried.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Then taken out from oil and placed on a paper to absorb excess oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Hot french fry can be served with sauce.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">It will make 3 servings.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Salad made from fresh fruits and vegetables are very useful for health.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Salad increases the appetite and brings variety in foods with polao quorma, rezala and biriyani on the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Besides, coloured vegetables and fruits mixed salad increases the elegance of the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Salad contains green citric fruits and vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">So vitamin C and other food components are found in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">After peeled off many fruits and vegetables turn brown in contact with air.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">These will not turn browning if mixed with salt water, lemon juice or sugar syrup.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Banana, papaya, guava and apple are to be cut into small pieces, and then kept after mixing with lemon juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Hog-plum is also to be sliced.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">All vegetables are to be peeled and sliced or cut into small pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Lettuces are to be washed with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Onions should be cut into rings.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Green chillies and coriander leaves should be minced.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Spread the lettuce on a plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Mix salt with all sliced vegetables and place on the lettuce.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Prepared cut onions, coriander leaves and green chillies are to be sprinkled over the vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The dress of a new born should be single cut and stitched very simply.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It should be made of soft cotton and should be loosely fitted.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">In this type of dress the baby will feel ease and comfort.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The material should be selected from cotton, handloom, voil, linen, mono colour or softly printed cloth etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The drafting and the details to make a simple dress for a new-born are given below .</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Cloth-35cm, pencil, rubber, measuring tape, scale, shape stick, pin, needle, scissors, thread, sewing machine etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">To make a dress of single cut there is no need of brown paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">We can take the measurement of the body and cut it forthright.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">At first the two sides of the girth should be stitched.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Piping should be fixed in the armpit.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">AC and BH should be folded for 2 cm. and should be hemmed or stitched.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In this fold a long ribbon has to be inserted.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The bottom of the length should be folded 2.5 cm. and hemmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Nappies are used for the new born babies instead of panties.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Because it is easier to put on and change.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">To make this nappy a 35 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">square piece of cloth should be taken and folded diagonally.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Then broad piping should be fixed by stitched on all the sides of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">A loop should be made and stitched in the point B as shown on the figure.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Then the corners of AD should be tied by a knot.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">In our daily life we use various types of stitching work.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The work is done by various type of stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">A proper stitch increases the beauty of a particular work enormously.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Designs are made on frocks, sarees, tablecloths, tray cloths and pillow covers by using different types of stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Needle, thread of various colours and a frame are needed for work of embroidery.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Of all hand made stitches this is the easiest one.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Our traditional quilts are made by using this type of stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">In making dress with the help of run stitch the temporary stitch that is used is known as tuck stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">For example, tuck stitches are used to join two pieces of cloth or in stitching pleats.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">To hem, at first anchor your thread in a seam allowance area and working from right to left side.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">It will be made on the inside of the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Then insert the needle from the back of the stitch and take out the needle in front of this stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Thus the stitch has to be continued gradually from back to forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">In the surface this stitch looks like the machine stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Take the needle from the edge of the thread to the front.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Then make a loop around the needle and then pull it up.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The next stitches will be formed in the same manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">This way make other loops around the needle and then pull those up.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">It looks like a chain so this stitch is called chain stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">It is used in filling the stems of different designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">In between two lines on the cloth the needle has to be moved diagonally from left to right side.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The same stitch has to be repeated from right to left side along the same lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">As a result in a row full of cross- stitches are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">This stitch is used in making different designs on hessian, cellular cloth, prayer mat, bags, cushion covers, strainers etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">This stitch is like buttonhole stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">At first insert the needle from the reverse surface of the cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Then wrap the thread 3 or 4 times around the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Pull the needle holding the twisted thread as a knot with your right hand finger.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Then pull the needle back through the fabric close to the previous stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">This stitch looks like a knot.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">So it is called a knot stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">At first make run stitch in the design area.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Then fill the entire place with repeated stitches from inner side and outer side.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">These motifs are used in making tray cloth or a pillow cover by different stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The design can be worked in the centre or in one corner of the cloths.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">At first trace this design on the pillow covers or in the corner of a tray cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Then choose your own colour of the thread and finish it with chain stitch or back Stitch.:</sent>
				<sent id ="222">If desired this run stitch can also be used in engraved rag.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Run Stitch Different types of woollen wear are used in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Many of those wear like-cap, socks, muffler and sweater etc. are made by wool at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Muffler is used in winter season to cover neck and ears jointly.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">back of the loop of the stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Now pull the wool in front and knit purl.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Complete the row by knitting a right stitch and a purl.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">To start each row you have to slip the first stitch through back of loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">It is to remember that when you knit you have to insert the needle in the back of the loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Knit upto 70 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">and then cast off.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Now take 14 pieces of wool measuring 16 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Take a single piece of wool and fold it twice.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Then insert it in one corner of the muffler.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Put the two ends together and knot a tie on the top.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">This will make the frill of the muffler.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">There will be 7 frills on one side of the muffler at equal distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">10th line: Knit 10 chains and join it in each hole with a half long.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">This is to be done all along to make a figure.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Spare a gap and use a bead.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The measurement of the cover with frill will be 13.5 cm.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
