<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-homeEco-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.174</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">296</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3464</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1165</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t104">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In ancient time in our country, the weavers used to make cloth by spinning yarns on a wheel.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">People used to meet their need of clothes by making dresses from that cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Fibre is the main material for making cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Which is as thin or thinner than a fine hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">There is qualitative difference in the fibre of different materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Therefore cloth cannot be made from all types of fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Cloth is made from cotton fibre, as it is thin, smooth and soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">But fibre of jute is thick and rough so it is not very suitable for making cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Long fibre is especially suitable for weaving cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">If short fibre is twisted strong yarn can be produced from that.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">For example cotton fibre is short but it can be twisted.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">So durable cloth can be made from Cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Softness of fibre is an excellent quality for making cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">When fibre is twisted and broken, cloth can not be made from that fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Power to absorb colour is a great quality of fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">A waxy chemical compound named tannin is present in fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">In the presence of this compound fibre cannot absorb colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The luster or brightness of fibre is a quality for creating beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The luster of silk fibre makes silk cloths more valuable.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">If dirt can be easily removed from fibre, that are suitable for making cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Fibre should have the quality to resist decay.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Fibre which is not easily damaged by normal heat, mild alkali or acid, is specially suitable for textile industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Normal fibres are easily available in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Those are being used as materials for making cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">But as a result of scientific and technological development artificial or man made fibre has emerged in textiles.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Natural or normal fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Artificial of man made fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">According to Source Natural Fibres are of Three Types:</sent>
				<sent id ="29">a) Plant fibres: The fibres which are available from plant or trees are plant fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Cotton, linen, ramie, Jute etc. are plant fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">b) Animal fibres: The fibres which are obtained from animals are animal fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Silk and wool are animal fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">c) Mineral fibres: The fibres which are found from minerals are mineral fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Asbestos and glass are mineral fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Artificial or Man Made Fibres can be Divided into Two Categories:</sent>
				<sent id ="36">a) Rayon fibre: At first cellulose is extracted from wood pulp and cotton cuttings.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Then through a chemical process with caustic soda and alkali rayon fibre is made.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Rayon is of three types- Viscose, kewpramonium and acetate.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">b) Synthetic fibre: Man has made synthetic fibres by using coal, water and air.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Nylon, polyester, vinion are synthetic fibres.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">After food and housing the thing which is most needed is clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The need for clothes was first felt to cover man's modesty and to protect hirn from inclement weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Later with the development of civilisation man J became conscious about other needs of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Like enhancing beauty of the body, covering the defects of the body, expressing his religion, culture and family status etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">By clothes we generally mean the garments that we wear.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Ladies sari, blouse, petticoat, mens pyjama, panjabi, each is a dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Mans personality, status and nationality are expressed by clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">No body can say properly when man started wearing clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">There was a time when there was no use of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">They used to hunt animals to meet the need of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">After eating the flesh they used to throw the hides and bones.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">They used fish bones and thin bones for making holes in hides.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">With these hides they used to cover their bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">They used to wrap their bodies with hides, which are softened by pounding with stones.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Later they used to cover their bodies by wearing a sort of cloth woven with grass, creepers, and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">This was called loin.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">For expressing beauty clothes of many designs came into practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Due to industrial revolution new machines and machine parts were invented.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">As a result clothes from latest designs to space suits are being made today.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Besides, today men are wearing special clothes for swimming, gymnastics and for international athletics.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Thus gradually clothes have changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Clothes have special relationship with health.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Wearing clothes would be comfortable if this relationship is kept in mind during selection of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Clothes not only provide comfort, but also protect health.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Protection from germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Not to create obstruction in circulation of blood in the body Maintenance of mental health.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">l) Protection of the Body from the Extreme Cold and Heat: We wear clothes for taking protection against winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">In winter the weather is cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The humidity of air decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">At that time we feel comfortable if the body is covered with woollen or warm clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Men sweat profusely in summer owing to hard work.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">It is better to use dress that is made from cotton, voil and thin cloth for absorbing the heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In summer one feels comfortable by wearing dresses made from these materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">On the other hand by wearing embroidered, laced and patch worked clothes, we feel more hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">In summer sleeveless dress made from thin cotton cloth makes the children comfortable and keep them healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Body is protected from the attack of germs and skin diseases if the skin remains covered with clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">It helps healing of wounds by stopping the germs from entering the wounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Very tight clothes can make a pressure on the arteries and veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">This hampers blood circulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It creates difficulties in the movements of limbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">These problems hamper the normal growth of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The dresses, which can be easily put on of taken off, should be worn.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Very tight clothes are harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">On the other hand very loose clothes are also not suitable for working.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Mental health is related with physical health.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">If man wears beautiful designed clean clothes he feels happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">His personality is enhanced.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">He gets respect from others.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">When wearing a torn and dirty clothes one feels bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">When children wear new clothes they feel happy and their hearts are filled with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Therefore, clothes by making people happy keep the heart cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">People wear dresses according to geographical, social, cultural and religious customs.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The country or his nationality can be known from person's clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The identity of a nation can be found from clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Beside this person's profession, social class and age are also known from clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In Bangladesh the clothes of women are shari, blouse, petticoat and shalwar kamiz and modesty scarf.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">In different provinces of India different people live.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">People of different province wear different clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Sikhs can be identified by the turbans on their heads.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Lungi and fatwa are Burmese dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Japanese dress is kimono.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Muslims of central Asia wear long kurta or toap and small pant, in the lower position.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Ladies wear long ghagra, kurta, chadar, scarf and cover the whole body in a yashmak or veil.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Shirt, suit and tie are the national dress of the inhabitants of Europe and America.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">In Bangladesh there is difference in the clothes of the inhabitants of various areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Regional influence can be seen specially in the clothes of the tribes of hilly areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">There are some fundamental needs in every man's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">When these needs are fulfilled, life becomes full of satisfaction and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Clothes are also a fundamental need, which help in fulfilling many requirements of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Through clothes one can make oneself handsome and attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">One purpose of wearing clothes is to manifest one's beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Beautiful and dignified dresses express, the quality of one's character.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">It also reflects one's personality.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">To Protect the Body from Adverse Weather and Climate: Different clothes are worn in different seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Woollen, flannel and thick clothes are more comfortable to wear in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Woollen clothes are non- conductor of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">So it does not allow body heat to escape or allow outside cold to enter.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">On the other hand summer clothes made from cotton, linen, voil etc. are more comfortable to wear.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">These clothes absorb the sweat from the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">It keeps the body cool by allowing air to circulate because it is good conductor of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Dust and infinite number of germs float in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Man has to go out daily for various activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Clothes cover the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Due to the clothes outside dirts and different germs cannot easily come in contact with the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">To keep the body healthy protecting against germs is one of the purposes of wearing clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Men did not cover their bodies with anything in primitive time.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Sense of modesty developed in men with the progress of civilisation.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Then men started wearing tree barks to cover their modesty.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">There after necessity of clothes was felt.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Clothes are necessary for covering the modesty of both men and women.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Physical changes take place in growing stage of girls.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">At that time they need modesty scarf and loose clothes for comfortable movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Only clothes provide civilised people to move freely by covering their modesty.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Decent clothes wearer is glorified by everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Clothes indicate national identity.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">It also identifies a special person.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Clothes are made keeping in view of the needs of one's work.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Importance of people's work is understood by proper dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">By identifying persons from their dresses, we can obtain services from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">General public can also obtain necessary services from them e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">ask for security on seeing an uniformed policeman or order for food to a bearer in the restaurant etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">From the clothes of tribal people of Bangladesh it can be said in which area they reside.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">There are rules for special professions to wear prescribed clothes or uniforms in all countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">According to service status, clothes or uniforms are used in certain offices.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">By-using special clothes with monograms or badges it is possible to distinguish high level and low level employees.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Everybody gets recognition according to his rank by wearing office dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Due to this, interest for work increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Respect for one's profession is, another purpose of uniform.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">For ages man is trying to make him beautiful and attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Dress is a perfect media for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Man attracts other's attention by wearing suitable clothes according to his figure, complexion, weather, and environment and current fashion.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Clothes, which have artistic touch of colour and balance of designs, make people beautiful and attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Neat, clean and simple designed clothes help in projecting a man's personality.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Everybody can enhance his elegance by wearing carefully chosen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">We wear various kinds of clothes both inside and outside of our homes.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">These clothes become unusable by dirt and sweat due to daily use.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Due to carelessness sometimes these are torn, sometimes these are stained or discloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The cleanliness, durability and beauty of clothes depend upon the care taken by wearer.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The clothes used daily, weekly and in different seasons should be washed cleanly, dried and kept in proper places.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">This will keep the clothes clean and return its newness.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Besides, clothes remain durable and can be used when necessary and also money is not wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Many costly clothes become unsuitable for use due to neglect.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Every member of the family, small as well as grown up should be taught how to take care of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Otherwise, housewife will be loaded.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Generally cotton clothes are for daily use.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Besides, clothes for daily use are uniforms, ordinary clothes, under garments, shoes-socks, ribbons etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">These require every day care.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The dress made by specific materials and with designs for schools, colleges, offices and courts are called uniforms.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Every day care is not required if the uniforms are clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">It can be washed on alternate days.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">After use it should be spread out in the air for drying the sweat.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Dirty uniform is to be washed with soap and water, rinsed with blue and starch and ironed.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">After ironing it should be folded and stored in a fixed place so that it can be easily found.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Various jobs are performed in and outside the house wearing normal clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">As a result these clothes become dirty and give bad smell of sweat.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Many times buttons come out.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Clothes can become spotted or torn due to negligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">At first buttons are to be fixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Clothes should be darned or stitched if torn.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Then the spots should be removed by following the proper procedure if marked with spots.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">It should then be washed with soap and water and if necessary should be rinsed with blue and starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">By undergarments we mean clothes like vest, chemise, shorts etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">All undergarments cling to the skin of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">So it gives a bad smell and becomes dirty due to sweating.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Undergarments are to be washed with soap and water after every use and then dried in the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Then it is to be rinsed with blue if white.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">These are never to be starched.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Starched undergarments would be very uncomfortable to wear.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">After coming back to home men put off the shoes and socks along with the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Then the pair of shoes is to be brushed and dried in air in case of dirt.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">If it is wet, it should be dried in mild sunlight or in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It would shrink and lose its shape if dried in extreme sunlight or near the fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">It should be dried and then polished when discoloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">After taking off the socks these should be shaken and aired to dry the sweat.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Socks become very bad smelling as a result of sweating.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Girls use ribbons made of white or different coloured cloth to tie their hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Due to frequent use ribbons catch hair oil and dirt and give'bad smell.'</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Besides they also get wrinkled.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">So every day after using ribbons these should be washed with warm water and soap and then dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">After dried these should be stretched, ironed and kept either folded or hanging.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">These are the weekly care of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Besides, polishing shoes, cleaning the bags are also included in the weekly care.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">We wear clothes according to seasons like summer, winter, rainy season etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">In winter woollen clothes like sweater, muffler, shawls etc. or heavy clothes are worn.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">These clothes are washed, dried and stored in proper place when the winter season is over.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">This is known as seasonal care.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Then these are thoroughly washed and dried at the end of winter if these become very dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">After drying these should be kept in the air or in a cool place for sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Woollen clothes are not to be hanged in hangers.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">This will spoil the shape of the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">To keep the clothes safe from insect bites, naphthalene should be put in each folding of the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Fine thin clothes are used in summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">This summer clothes are not needed for wearing in winter or rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Cotton clothes are to be kept after being washed, dried and ironed at the beginning of winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">It is not - qecessary to starch them.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Starched clothes if stored are eaten by insects and often become yellow in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Woollen clothes must be sunned after thd rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Otherwise these will be attacked by fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Because old paper is easily attacked by insects and make the clothes dirty by ink in the paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">If seasonal clothes are preserved for next season naphthalene should be used in the folding of the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Clothes must be kept carefully folded or hanged in a fixed place wearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Clothes are not found when needed if these are strewn here and V there.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Time and energy is wasted unnecessarily in searching them.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The clothes also become dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">It is necessary to use cupboard, trunk or box according to needs to keep the clothes handy.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Generally wood, steel, hard board, rexin or cloth are used for making cupboard and storing clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">To save space wall cupboard is also used in modern time.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Varnish of wooden and steel cupboard must be fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Varnish must be dried well and only then clothes are kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">There should be no gaps in the doors and drawers.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Otherwise dust and cockroaches will enter and damage the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">In ancient times trunks were mostly used.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Trunks are made of tin or steel.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">These are of various sizes both small and big.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">There are handles on two sides for holding.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The trunks, which are deep, hold more clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The clothes do not get rusted if the inside of a trunk is painted.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Clothes are damaged by moisture when trunks are kept on damp floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Very heavy trunk is to be kept in a fixed place.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Clothes are to be stored in trunk in such a place where there is proper air circulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">In the town suitcases made of rex in and leather are mostly used.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">After putting naphthalene winter and summer clothes are kept in suitcases.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Clothes are kept in wood and hard board made boxes of various sizes both small and big.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">In the villages heavy boxes are known as chests.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Wheels are attached for easy handling.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">In the box dust and insects cannot enter if the lid is heavy.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">There are partitions inside the box for storing different kinds of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Well-polished and patterned wooden box increases the beauty of the room as a valuable furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">A stand made with straight wooden rods is called a rack.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">It comes in different sizes both small and big.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">For keeping shoes and other things there is a flat place under the rods.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">It is better to keep the rack in one side of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Rack should not be kept before windows.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Because it would create difficulty in the circulation of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The rods of the rack should be very smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">So threads of the clothes are not entangled with the rod of rack.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Well-varnished racks are durable and do not damage the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">In the care of clothes, storage is an important step.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Storage of clothes is essential to save them from outside dust, insects, moisture etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The clothes are easily attacked by fungus and damaged if neat and clean clothes are kept scattered in damp atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Clothes are not easily found when needed if it is not stored properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">This is not only the wastage of time but also is annoying.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">For keeping clothes it is better to use trunk and cupboard.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Torn clothes should be repaired before storing.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Stains should be removed from the cloth and washed according to procedure and then dried well.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Clothes should not be wet or moist.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Clothes should be dried in the air and cooled after being ironed and then stored.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Metallic buttons, hooks, cufflinks of coats, shirts, blouses and other clothes should be detached.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">This will save them from rusting.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">We use dresses of different kinds like Shirts, pants, coat, pyjamas.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Punjabis, sarees, blouses, woollen clothes, sheets, handkerchiefs, caps etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">If folding suits, pants and costly sarees are kepi in hangers in the cupboard, these will not be spoiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Blouses should also be hanged on the hangers, as this will save them from spots of hooks.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Ladies dress, skirt etc. also do not loose their crease or get wrinkled when kept in hangers.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Different dresses are to be stored in fixed places of cupboard.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Small and big size clothes should be stored separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Different dresses stored in fixed places of cupboard.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">These things should be stored in the drawers of the cupboard or in a fixed place of a box.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">It would be better to keep the ties hanging on the rod or hook of the door of the cupboard.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">We use some clothes almost daily.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">These can be stored in the rack or lower shelf of cupboard to keep these handy.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Shirts, frocks, blouses etc. do not lose their folding if kept in hangers in the rack.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Clothes like sarees, lungis.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">pyjamas if stored after being folded on different shelves of the rack, they can be easily found when required.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Woollen clothes will remain better if stored in trunks and boxes.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Woollen sweaters must not be kept hanging.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Sweaters and shawls kept rolled in white or brown paper remains crease less.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Costly shoes which are used occasionally are stored in a specific shelf at the bottom of the cupboard.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Before storing clothes, empty cupboard, boxes or trunks should be sprayed with insecticide and kept for two days.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Then it is to be dusted well.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">When storage place is free from the smells of insecticide, clothes are to be kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Naphthalene should be put in the folding of the clothes, specially the woollen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Clothes give smell if stored for a long time in the box or in the cupboard.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Fungus is spared in clothes due to moisture after the rainy season or for wants of free circulation of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">After being cooled they should be placed in the respective places.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">This keeps the stored clothes in good condition for a long time.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
