<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-islam-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.243</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">232</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2325</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">765</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t107">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The word Tawhid means the view of Oneness.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Our houses, its furniture, our dresses etc. have not been produced automatically.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Somebody has prepared and made these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Similarly, we can see a vast sky over our head.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Therein exist the planets, the stars, the moon and the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Again, how beautiful is the world where we live in!</sent>
				<sent id ="7">He also cherishes and preserves everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">He is one, Alone and Unparallel.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Nothing else is comparable to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">He and only He deserves all worship and all kinds of adoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">To believe it is called Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">As Allah is Absolute in His unique.existence</sent>
				<sent id ="14">so is He in or with His unparallel qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">There is nothing that can be compared with Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">He is the First and He is the Last.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">He is Self-existent, Immortal, Everlasting and Eternal.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">We will always believe Him as One and second to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">We will worship Him only.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The very basis of Iman is to believe in Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">And the basis of belief is to have sincere faith in Tawhid, that is, believe in the oneness of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Thus, all the rules of Islam and its teachings depend on the belief in Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">They dedicated their whole life and sacrificed the same for the establishment to Tawhidr whole life and.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">sacrificed the same for the establishment to Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">We all know about Hazrat Ibrahim (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="26">He was born in a priest family.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">In his time people were idolatrous.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">They used to worship their ruler, king Namrud.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Ibrahim (A) could not accept it.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">He thought as to how a hand-made idol could be worshiped!</sent>
				<sent id ="31">It is He and only He Who is to be worshiped.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">He has created all these things and is directing the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">We shall know the inner significance of Tawhid, believe in it and shall follow the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">It means: There is no god but Allah, Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) is His Apostle.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Significance: The very basis of Tawhid is Kalima Tayyiba.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">While explaining this Kalima we find its three parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">First Part: La-ilaha i.e. no one deserves worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Illallah, that is, except Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">With this the existence of One and Only Allah is confirmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">And this belief is established in the soul and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">He is One and Alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">A believer worships Him only.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">He never bows his head down to anyone except Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He never serves anyone except Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">With this a believer accepts the Prophethood of Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="47">To believe in the Prophethood of Muhammad (Sm)- is essential for the belief in Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">He, who has no belief in Allah has no belief in the Prophethood of Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Because revelation of Allah comes to the Prophet and Allah is known to all through the Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Thus, Kalima Tayyiba - La ilaha illallahu Muhammadur Rasulullah.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">This basic message of Tawhid has brought a revolutionary change in the minds of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">We shall correctly recite Kalima Tayyiba, believe in it sincerely and shall lead our lives accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">It means: I give evidence that there is no god but Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">He is One.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">I also give evidence that Muhammad (Sm) is His servant and Apostle.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Allah, the Almighty is our Creator, Protector and Sustainer.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He is very Kind.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">He bestowed upon us manifold bounties.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The light, air, fire, water all these are His bounties.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">We are living on His mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He gives us food, happiness and peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">We accept His mercy upon us with gratitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">We are grateful to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">We are His servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">We worship Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">We given evidence of our faith and belief in Him through Kalima Shahadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">We sincerely accept the truth that only He deserves all adorations.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Kalima means sentence and Shahadat means to give evidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Hence, Kalima Shahadat means to give evidence of faith and belief in Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The acceptance of the Prophethood (Risalat) and to declare it with.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Wa ashhadu anna Muhammadan Abduhu wa Rasuluhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">We did not know Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The Prophets made Allah acquainted with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">They have shown us the path of His pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They have exposed and explained before us His messages and taught us how to worship Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">They have brought into practice the rules and regulations of Allah and given us the practical training.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was a Prophet as well as a beloved servant of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He always worshiped Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">All the previous Prophets used to worship Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But people sometimes made them incarnations out of their ignorance committing Shirk or partnership with Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">We shall know the meaning and significance of Kalima Shahadat, having firm belief in it and lead our lives accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Meaning: I believe in Allah as he exists with His names and qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">And thus accepted all of His commandments and rules and regulations.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Iman means belief and Mujmal means brief.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Hence, Iman Mujmal means belief in brief.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">To accept and believe in the fundamentals of Islam is called Iman Mujmal.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Allah is Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">He is One.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He has no partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">He has nice qualities and beautiful names.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">We must believe in His qualities as we believe in His existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">And then we must abide by the commandments and prohibitions of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">A balance between this acceptance and omission is Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">We shall be able to know its meaning and to tell the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">We shall be able to explain all about it having real belief in all of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">It is already known to us that Allah is Incomparable, Unique.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">His attributes are also unparallel.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Allah is the Source of all attributes. he is the Cherisher and Sustainer of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He is the Owner of everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He knows everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He has a number of qualitative names.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">These are called Al-Asmaul-Husna.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Asma means names and Husna means nice and beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Hence, Al-Asmaul-Husna means, the beautiful names.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">That is, Allah's are the fairest name.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Invoke Him by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Many qualitative names of Allah have been mentioned in the Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Human beings are the vicegerents (Khalipha) of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Allah likes the exposure of His attributes in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">One who attains and owns the attributes of Allah, achieves excellent character, is a nice man.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Allah is a judge.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He likes that we should do justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Allah is Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He likes that we should how mercy to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Islam teaches us to attain the attributes of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Means: Be embodiment of the attributes of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">We shall know the qualitative names of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">These are the ideals for human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">It becomes easy to bring the commandments of Allah into practice for those who know the attributes of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">They can keep themselves aloof from all kinds. of injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Malik means possessor and owner.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Allah is the Possessor and Owner of everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The vast blue sky is spread over our head.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The sun, the moon, numerous planets, minor planets and stars exist in the infinite space.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The big stars which are million times bigger than the earth exist in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">How vast this creation is! Allah is the only Creator and the only Owner of this creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">He is the Owner of our life and death.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He is the Owner of all kinds of wealth and properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">We are the temporary custodians of these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">We shall have firm belief in Allah as the owner of our lives and properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">We shall express gratitude for His bounties and shall follow His commandments in each and every step of our lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The word Karim means generous, magnanimous, highly majestic and merciful etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">One who possesses the qualities like kindness, mercy, forgiveness, patience, magnanimity, generosity etc. fully is called Karim.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">And Allah, the Almighty is the only Creator and Possessor of all these attributes fully.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Hence, He is the only Karim.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Thus, Allah Karim means Allah is magnanimous, highly majestic, generous and merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Nothing can be compared with the mercy and bounties of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He has created for us the sun, the moon, light and air, fire, water, trees, animals and everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">His bounties have no limit.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">We are living on His mercy, but we do not express gratefulness to Him even on enjoying all these bounties.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Yet He does not punish us.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">This is His generosity and magnanimity.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Alim means omniscient.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Allahu Alim means Allah is the Omniscient, all knowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The knowledge of Allah has no limit.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">He knows everything in the sky and the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Allah knows each and everything of our deeds and movements.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">He knows even those matters which are in our hearts.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">One can hide anything from other but he can hide nothing from Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Even which we think in our hearts He knows that too.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Everybody is accountable to Him for his deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Hence, we must feel strongly that Allah is Omnipresent and Omnipotent.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">We shall make this world beneficent utilizing the knowledge given by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The word Hakim means wise, very wise, all-wise, very skillful, clever and One who owns these qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Allah Hakim means Allah is All wise who owns all these qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">He has created the world skillfully and cherishing and protecting the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Our heads bow down with deepest honour and gratitude to Him seeing this vast and huge skillful creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">We shall be acquainted with Asmaul Husna and shall be able to describe the significance of these attributes.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Thus, we shall build our lives following the qualitative names of Allah: Malik, Karim, Alim and Hakim.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">A believer must believe in Risalat or Prophethood like his belief in Tawhid or oneness of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Belief in Tawhid is not accepted without the belief in Risalat.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The word Risalat means message, letter and bearing news.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Risalat is also called Nabuwat.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Those great men who have performed the responsibilities of Prophethood are the Prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">They received the messages of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Hence, they themselves practiced the commandments of Allah and.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">trained the people for the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">They were in fact, teachers for the mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">They were the embodiments of excellent character.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">They were purely and thoroughly truthful and innocent.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">No greed could touch them at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">They were humane to the human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">They dedicated their lives for the cause of human betterment.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">A large number of Prophets came to this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Of them Adam (A) was the first of the Prophets and Muhammad (Sm) was the last of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The Rasul received the complete revealed books.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">But the Nai did not receive the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">They used to preach religion following the book of their previous Rasul.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">To preach acquaintance of Allah: The Prophet manifested before us the acquaintance with Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">To guide to the right path: The right and wrong paths were not known to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The Prophets guided us to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Rectification of character: The Prophets possessed high character.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">They rectified the character of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Belief in both Tawhid and Risalat is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Allah sent messages to the Prophets and Prophets manifested those to the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Hence, one who does not believe in Risalat his belief in Tawhid is no belief.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Thus, the belief in Resalat is a part of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">We shall be able to describe the meaning of Resalat and the definition of Nabi and Rasul.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Akhirat means hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The life after the termination of the worldly life is called Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It starts after death.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Akhirat life has no end, that is an endless life.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">People will get the result of their worldly deeds there.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">the Prophet (Sm) said, The world is the cornfield of Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Belief in Akhirat is as essential as belief in Tawhid and Risalat.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Thus the character uplifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The step of Akhirat life is grave or Alam-i-Barzakh, a transitional time to eternity.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Two angels Munkir and Nakir will ask these questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Their grave will become a part of the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">They will remorse for their past worldly deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">And their grave will turn into a part of the hellish punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">The second stage of the Akhirat life is the Doomsday.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Allah has created everything out of nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">And when people will forget Him, even no one will utter His name, then Allah will destroy the whole universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">This i s called Doomsday or the Day of Deluge.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">With the first blow from the mouth of Israfil (A) everything will be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">With his second blow people from the grave and each one anywhere and everywhere they may remain, will stand up.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">this is called Qiyamat or Resurrection.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">This is called Hashr.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">On this day everybody is to give account of all their deeds of worldly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Those believers who have done good deeds, will get the blessings of Allah and will be in comfort and peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">But the unbelievers involved in misdeeds will be into horrible punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Their punishment will be of no end.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The sun will spread its fire like heat from a very near distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The sinners will be terribly sweating all over.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">shadow of the Arsh of Allah and will be in comfort.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">On the Hashrday men will find the ledger of all their worldly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Then the minute judgment will begin.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Allah, the Almighty Himself will be the Judge.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The Prophets and Angels will the witness.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The organs of human body will, also give evidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">On the Hashrday the sins and the virtuous deeds will be measured by the Mizan or the scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Those people whose virtues scale will be heavy will get the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">And those whose sins scale will be heavy will go to the hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The heaven is a place of unimaginable happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">And the hell is a place of indescribable hardship and punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Shall be able to describe about Akhirat and the importance and influence of belief in Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Shall be able to discuss the punishment in the grave and the comfort and reward in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Shall be ale to describe in brief about Qiyamat and Hashr.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">We shall have sincere belief in these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">We shall be cautious in our worldly life being afraid of accountability in Akhirat.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
