<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-islam-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.32</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">241</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2768</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">930</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t110">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The word Akhlaq is a plural of Khuluqun, which means: nature, character and good behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Fine nature and good character is called Akhlaq.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Man is a social being, hence man has to live with mutual understanding.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Akhlaq Hamida is to attain Tagwa, to speak the truth, to behave well with the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Everybody must attain Akhlaq Hamida and give up Akhlaq Zamima.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Through this lesson we shall be able to tell the significance of Akhlaq.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Shall be able to differentiate between Akhlaq Hamida and Akhlaq Zamima.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">We shall give up Akhlaq Zamima and attain Akhlaq Hamida.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Akhlaq Hamida or appreciative behaviour has immense significance in human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Man can maintain friendly relation with appreciative behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">It makes our life sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">He also said, The most beloved to me amongst you is one who possesses the best character.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Allah has gifted men innumerable bounties.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Of all the bounties good character is the best one.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">His character is the only imitable ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Regarding this Allah says: You have indeed in the Prophet of Allah a beautiful pattern of conduct .</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The whole life of the Prophet (Sm) is an imitable ideal for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">We shall beautify our lives following his ideals.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Taqwa is an Arabic term.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">It means: fear, abstain, self-rectification and to be afraid of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">In Islamic terminology, to abstain from all kinds of evil things and evil activities for fear of Allah is Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">And such a pious and rectified one is called Muttaqi.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The significance of Taqwa is unbounded.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Religious rites and rituals without Taqwa are of no value.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The criterion of honour and dignity to Allah is Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">It is not the wealth but Taqwa which makes a man dignified to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The most honoured of you in the sight of Allah is (he who is) the most righteous of you.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">(Sura Hujurat: 13) It means that the most honoured to Allah is the person who is more Muttaqi.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">We shall be able to narrate the significance and importance of Taqwa.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">We shall bring it into practice and lead a nice life like a good Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">To depend on and trust only in Allah is called Tawakkul.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The person who depends only on Allah and submits to Him is called dependant on Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Importance and significance Allah has created us.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">He is our Creator, He is our Cherisher and Sustainer.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Our life, death, everything is in His disposal.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">So it is our bounded duty to depend on Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Those who depend on Allah in real sense of the term, Allah is enough for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">And if anyone puts his trust in Allah, that is sufficient (Allah) for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The prophet (Sm) said, If you would depend on Allah, He would provide you with food like beasts and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Of all the good qualities of men, truthfulness or truth is the best one.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Everybody loves and honours those who speak the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Truthfuls are dignified and honoured both here in this world and in the world hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">On the other hand, liars are hated and dishonoured everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Our beloved prophet Muhammad (Sm) was truthful from his boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He never uttered a single lie throughout his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">About the necessity of truthfulness it is said truthfulness is salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The prophet (Sm) said You should be truthful, because truthfulness leads to piety and piety leads to the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">(Bukhari and Muslim).</sent>
				<sent id ="49">There is a story concerning with the life of the great saint Hazrat Abdul Qadir Jilani (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="50">At his teen age he started for Baghdad for education.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">His mother gave him 40 gold coins under the secret part of his shirt for utmost security.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">While saying good bye the mother advised him to speak the truth under all circumstances.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">On the way he was attacked by dacoits along with his group mates.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">They asked everybody about their belongings and took them away.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The dacoits became astonished and asked.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">I cannot tell lie to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Seeing this truthfulness in a simple boy they repented for their past evil deeds and gave up plundering for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Thus, truthfulness can lead to the path of salvation and betterment.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">We shall always be cautious about the significance and importance of truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">We shall always speak the truth and be truthful.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">commanding the fulfillment of promise and words Allah, the Almighty says: O you who believe! fulfill all obligations (or words).</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Everybody is accountable to Allah on the Day of Judgment about the fulfillment of words.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The Prophet (Sm) said: Promise is one kind of debt.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It means, if any one has taken any debt from another, he is to pay it.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">In this way if any one has given word to other, he is to fulfill the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Those who fulfill the promise are honoured in the society and every one trusts them.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Tney get help from all and they are happy in the social life.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">To break promise is a serious crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Those who break their promises are hated here in this world as well as in the world hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Nobody believes a person who breaks promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Nobody wants to carry on any business with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Nobody comes forward to help him in bad days.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">As a result his life becomes, fully sorrowful.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">We shall always fulfill our words and be happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Contribution of our parents in our lives is much more than that of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They have taken unlimited hardship for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">From our birth they cherish us with affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">They try their best for our peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">They provide us with well education.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">In this world there is none of our own than our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">To us their dignity is next to that of the Creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">We must be obedient to our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">To carry out their commandments and prohibitions is our duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">We must take care of them and sacrifice ourselves for their service.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">We must take care of the parents specially at their old age.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">We should be polite to them with amiable behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">We should also pray for them after their death.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">That is : My Lord! bestow on them thy mercy even as they cherished me in childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The Prophet (Sm) Said: The heaven is under the feet of the mothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">We shall abide by the advises of our parents, take care of them and serve them as much as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Our dear ones are our relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Those who are related heart to heart with us, are our relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Relative means: brothers and sisters, uncles and aunts; grand- father, grand-mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law and other friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">After performing own duties to our parents we have our duties to our relatives too.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">We should take care of them in their diseases and should stand by them in their needs and dangers.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">It is heinous sin to cause sufferings or cut off relation with the relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">But helping them in misdeeds and to co-operate with them in their sinful acts is not proper.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Rather we should resist them from committing misdeeds and that kind of resistance should be proper duties towards them.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Allah commanded to behave well with the relatives and not to break relation with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He says: And do good to your parents and kinsfolk.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">(Nisa: 36) Rights of the relatives must be fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">We shall know the duties to the relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">We shall do good to our relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">We shall help them in their distress and co-operate with them in all their good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">They all are our neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The Prophet (Sm) said: The people living up to the forty houses around your house are included in your neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">We must behave well with the neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">We should take care of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">We should not do any injustice against the neighbours, rather we should help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">We shall be able to tell about the duties to the neighbours and we shall take care of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">To show respect to the elders and affection to the younger is a great quality of human character.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The man who shows respect to the elders and affection to the younger is an ideal man.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Our beloved Prophet, Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) used to show respect to the elders and fondness to the younger.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">As a result a sweet relation prevailed in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The juniors are to greet the seniors wherever they meet them and to speak withthem politely.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">They should help and co-operate with them in their work.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">They should listen to the moral teachings given by their seniors and learn those gladly.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">If affection is shown to there, the children accept the moral lessons.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">This embroadens their mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">So, it is our duty to respect them and to abide by their orders and prohibitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">On the other hand, the elders also should show affection to the younger.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">We will respect our elders and sow affection to the younger.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">In our social life we are to adjust with different types of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">In our school life we have class-mates, with whom we do study, they are our most beloved ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">We have a very close, sincere and sweet relation with each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">We help each other, we feel for each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">We shall behave well with our class-mates and Allah will be pleased upon us.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">We have already come to know that blamable conduct is Akhlaq-i-Zamima or evil character.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The Prophet (Sm) was a holy man, who never told a lie, never abused anyone and never deceived anyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">We shall follow his ideals and shall never tell a he, never abuse anyone and never deceive anyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">To change a fact or occurrence and to present it in a twisted form is called falsehood.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">And the person who does it is called a liar.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Falsehood is a hated evil act.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">To tell lie is a sign of hypocrisy.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">It defames the dignity of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">No body believes a liar nor people like a liar.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The Prophet (Sm) said: Be away from falsehood.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Because falsehood leads to injustice and evil activities and injustice and evil activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">lead to the hell (Bukhari and Muslim).</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Falsehood is the root of all kinds of evils and sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Falsehood is destruction and in consequence, it is terrible.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">It is said that a cow- boy out of wickedness started shouting: Tiger, tiger, please save me.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">When the people rushed to save him, he said: Well, the tiger has gone away.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The boy did the same for the second time, third time and the people found no tiger.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">As a result, the tiger killed the boy and ate him.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">In this way falsehood bring destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">To expose and spread the fault of anyone to others in his absence is called Ghibat or slander.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Back-biting is a nasty sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Every Muslim must keep themselves aloof from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">One day the Prophet (Sm) asked his companions, Do you know what is Ghibat?</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Allah and His Prophet know well.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Slander is a blamable act.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Regarding the demerits.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">of slander and back-biting Allah, the Almighty says.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">And spy not on each other, nor speak ill of each other behind their backs.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Would any of you like to eat the flesh of his dead brother?</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Surely, you would dislike it.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">We shall never tell a lie.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The wealth, the life and honour of any Muslim are sacred to any other Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Back-biting spoils the honour of other Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">For this, abuse is forbidden in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Both abusing and listening to it are forbidden.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Therefore, both the back- biter and its.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">listener, are guilty.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We shall be able to describe the demerits of back-biting.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">We will not back-bite anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">We will not listen to the back-biting of anybody else.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">We will look down upon the back-biter.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">As a result of this, peace will come in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Abuse means to reproach or criticize.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Abuse is a blamable deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">No gentleman can abuse others.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Man by nature is a social being.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">To abuse a Muslim is a blamable act and to kill him it is disbelief.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">(Bakhari & Muslim) Fisq means hateful acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">He who commits fisq, is called Fasiq.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Severe punishment waits for the Fasiq in the after world.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">It is improper to abuse anybody in reply to his abuse.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">A person asked the Prophet (Sm), Oh the Prophet of Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="180">One man of my community abuses me; but he is inferior to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Is there any negation for me to take revenge against him?</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Then the Prophet (Sm) said, Both the abuser and the counter abuser are equally devils.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Both of them call the opponent a liar and both of them blame each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The Prophet (Sm) also said.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">It is a great sin to abuse the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The companions said Oh, the Prophet of Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Is there any wretch who abuses his own parents?</sent>
				<sent id ="188">He said, He abuses the parents of other people who also, in the same way, abuse his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">This Hadith means that, abusing other's parents is abusing one's own parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">We will not abuse others in-reply to their abuse an at this, the abuser will be ashamed and repentant.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">He will be able-to realize his own mistake and will give up the blamable act like abuse.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">We shall never abuse.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">We shall always keep ourselves aloof from these kinds of blamable behaviour like abusing others.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">To behave well and cordially with the relatives is essential duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">On the other hand, it is very heinous to cut off the relationship with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">To behave well and cordially with the relatives is Allah's order.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Like this it is also His order not to cut off the relationship with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">It means: Behave well with your parents and relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The person who breaks the relationship with the relatives is hated in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Nobody likes him and nobody maintains his relationship with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Nobody comes forward to help him in his danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He is known as cruel in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Unrest comes down if there is the breaking of relationship with the relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The person who breaks relationship with relatives, is insulted in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">There is severe punishment for him in the world hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">We shall maintain the relationship with our relatives and be aware of their welfare in times of needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">At this Allah will be pleased to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Human beings will love us.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Robbery is to take away the wealth of others forcibly on the way or highway.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Robbery is a heinous sin, and those who are involved in this heinous activities are the enemies of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Robbery is a heinous offense.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">It is just like a war against Allah and His Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Hence, punishment is severe.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The Prophet (Sm) said: He who involves in robbery does not belong to my followers.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">We shall do our best to prevent and eradicate robbery from our society.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Man is the best creation of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Allah has created innumerable things for man in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Out of them, useful things have been made Halal or legal and harmful things have been declared Haram or illegal.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Allah has already informed men through His revelations and Prophets about the harmful and useful things.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Smoking and intoxications are among harmful illegal and prohibited things.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Smoking is a harmful and bad habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">It is a waste of money and it is harmful for health.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Wastage of money is heinous sin in the light of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Prodigal is a brother of Satan.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Verily spendthrifts are brothers of the evil ones (Banff Israil :27).</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Allah does not like the spendthrifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Smoking is neither a useful food nor a useful drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">It is just wastage of money, for harming the health, which creates bad smell in the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The Prophet (Sm) said: Nobody should come to the Mosque with bad smell in the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">It troubles those who come to the Mosque for prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Smoking is poisonous which creates many diseases and lead to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">So we shall not smoke and shall try our best to protect people from smoking.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Drug addiction is a dangerous and heinous bad habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Intoxication is such a thing that creates adverse effect in human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The Prophet (Sm) said: The thing which removes human knowledge and intelligence that is intoxicant.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Medicine, used for treatment is all right but to use medicine for intoxication is Haram or illegal, harmful and sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Allah, the almighty declares in the Quran: O ye who believe!</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Intoxicants and gambling, (dedication) of stones and (divination) arrows are abomination of satan's hand work.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Eschew such (abomination), that ye many prosper.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The Prophet (Sm) said: Intoxicated, drunkard will not be allowed to enter into the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Besides these, the drunkard man is attacked with various diseases.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
