<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-islam-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.351</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">313</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3706</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1239</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t111">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Allah expressed His desire to the Angels to create His Khalifa.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Vicegerent in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">They very politely argued.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Saying: O Lord, do you like to create such a creation as may create disturbance and shed blood?</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Whereas we are enough to express and spread your holiness and dignity.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">He then declared: I know what ye know not (Sura Baqara: 30).</sent>
				<sent id ="7">He says: I have created Jinns and men only that they may serve Me. (Jariat: 56).</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Thus, the first man on earth and the first Prophet is Hazrat Adam (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Allah bestowed upon Adam huge knowledge and because of having knowledge he has been declared best of the creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">All of them did so, except Iblis.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">He argued before Allah: You have created Adam with mud and me with fire, so I am superior to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">I shall not show respect to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">He (Iblis) showed pride.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">But Allah does not like pride.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">He became cursed and Satan.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Allah placed Adam (A) in the heaven and for him gave varieties of foods, fruits, comfort and delight.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">But Adam was alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">He was not feeling well because of being alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Allah created a companion for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">And played a trick with Adam (A) and made him forgotten the order of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Adam and Hawa approached the forbidden tree and ate the fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">That is why they were asked to leave the heaven and were sent to the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Adam and Hawa could realize the wrong done by them, repented for their offense and prayed to Allah for forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">At last Allah, the Merciful forgave them and asked them to live in peace in the worldly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">We are the descendants of Adam and Hawa (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Adam (A) committing wrong repented and sought forgiveness to Allah, the Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Iblis, because of his pride and vanity had been driven out from the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">We shall never show pride and vanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Hazrat Nuh (A) was a Prophet of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">He invited people to the path of Allah for long nine hundred and fifty years.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">He advised people to do good and not to do evil and wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Hazrat Nuh (A) used to preach the invitation of Iman to everybody moving from door to door.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">But they used to cut joke with him and torture him in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Bearing all these troubles and hardships he continued his invitation to the right path, the path of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">At last he became dishearten and prayed to destroy the unbelievers.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Verily my Lord is Most Gracious and Most Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The boat started moving like a mountain in the waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Both shower and water flowed from the earth and continued for long 40 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The whole world sank into water.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Unbelievers took shelter at the highs mountain, but all of them sank and died.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Only Hazrat Nuh (A) and those who got into the boat remained alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Even the son of Hazrat Nuh (A) sank and died since he was an unbeliever.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Then Hazrat Nuh (A) prayed to Allah for the stoppage of the deluge.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The world became green as it was.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Then Hazrat Nuh (A) began preaching the religion of Allah again in full swing.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">But few days after the deluge he died.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Thousands of years ago, there was a nation in this world named Samud.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Allah sent a Prophet to invite them to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">His name was Salih (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="50">He invited people to believe in Allah, the One and Alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Allah says: I sent to the Thamud people of their brethren, Salih.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Hazrat Salih (A) advised his people to worship Allah, the One and said: There is no god but Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">They did not respond to his call, rather they mocked and laughed at him.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">And out of mockery they said: If you are a true Prophet then prove it with showing us miracles.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Hazrat Salih (A) asked: What type of miracle do you want?</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The she-camel began to give milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Every body was surprised to look at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">But after a few days some unbelievers got together and defying the advice of Hazrat Salih (A) killed the she-camel.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Hazrat Salih (A) went to Syria after this occurrence and began to preach the religion of Allah there.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">And then he died there.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The community of Hazrat Salih (A) was destroyed because of defying the command of Allah and of His Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">We shall be able to tell about the life sketch of Hazrat Salih (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="63">We shall never defy any command of Allah and of our beloved Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="64">We shall abide by thier commandments and prohibitions faithfully and sincerely.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Our beloved Prophet, Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was born at Makka on the 12th Rabiul Awal, 20th April, 570 AD.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">At the time of the birth of the Prophet (Sm) they were involved in many offenses and sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Quarrel, fighting, robbery, murder, plundering etc. were almost their everyday affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Forgetting one Allah, they used to worship many gods and goddesses even the idols made by themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The holy Kaba was full of idols.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">They were being sold like the commodities and the slaves were tortured like any thing by their lords.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Women had no human honour in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">New born female children were used to be burried alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Under these circumstances, Allah sent our beloved Prophet (Sm) to guide the people to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Before him, many Prophets came to this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But our Prophet (Sm) is the last of all Prophets and the greatest of the Prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Our Prophet (Sm) was born in the Quraish family.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The name of his father is Abdullah and the mothers is Amina.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">His father died before his birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">After his birth he was named Muhammad and Ahmad.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">She brought him up as her own son up to the age of five.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Thereafter Muhammad (Sm) came back to the lap of his mother Amina.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Mother Amina took her son with unlimited emotion and fondness.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">But this emotional fondness continued no more.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">His mother died and he became an orphan losing the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Then his grand-father, Abdul Muttalib took the responsibility of bringing Muhammad (Sm) up.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">But after some days his grand-father also died.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Then he was being brought up at the shelter of his uncle Au Talib.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">His uncle's economic condition was not well.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Hence, he used to co-operate in his uncle's business.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He has many enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">They may kill him because, he is the last and the greatest of the Prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">He was thinking how peace could be established.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The people from far and near unanimously gave him the title of Al-Amin, the trustworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Quraish people began to renovate the very old Kaba house and they have completed the work.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">But there arose the difference of opinion about.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">the placement of the Black stone (Hajare Aswad).</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Every tribe wanted to achieve the honour of placing the stone.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Consequently every tribe became ready to fight for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">And his decision would be accepted by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Everybody shouted with extreme joy and happiness and said: Al-Amin has come and he will certainly give the right decision.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">In those days there was a famous and rich lady.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Her name was Khadija (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="103">She was in quest of a reliable man, who would look after her huge business.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) taking Khadija's business responsibility went to Syria.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Earning a huge profit he came back to Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Khadija was charmed and attracted with the honesty, efficiency and sincerity of Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Therefore she sent a proposal of marriage to hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="108">At that time Abu Talib was the guardian of Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Hence, Abu Talib arranged everything for the marriage with Khadija (R) .</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Thus the marriage ceremony was completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">At that time Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was 25 years old while Hazrat Khadija (R) was 40 years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) from his boyhood used think for the peace and salvation of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">This thinking had deepened at his young age.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">And after his marriage with Khadija this thinking increased and turned into mediation.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He used to think for the salvation of the distressed people involved in idol worshipping.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Sometimes he would remain in meditation for days together.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Thus after a long time of meditation he achieved Prophethood at the age of 40.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">-He never told a lie, never abused anyone, never deceived anyone and never broke the words.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">He was always human loving.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Enemies would become charmed at and moved with his lovely and amiable behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">He is the ideal for the whole mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">World peace could be achieved through following his ideals.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">We shall be able to explain the ideals of his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">And we shall follow his ideals.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Hazrat Abu Bakr was the most beloved companion of our beloved Prophet, Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He was well known as a learned man with polished behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">After the completion of education he started his traditional profession - business.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Being contemporary of the Prophet (Sm) Hazrat Abu Bakr had deep friendship with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Once Hazrat Abu Bakr (R) went to Yemen for business.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Hazrat Au Bakr straightly went to the Prophet (Sm) and accepted Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Because of preaching Islam Makkan people started enmity with the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="132">At this critical juncture Hazrat Abu Bakr used to remain always with the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Hazrat Abu Bakr (R) sacrificed everything for the cause of preaching Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Unbeliever lords used to give severe punishment and torture to their Muslim slaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Hazrat Abu Bakr feeling their hardship and sufferings would release the slaves with his own money.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Thus, he released a number of slaves like Hazrat Bilal (R) from the clutches of unbelievers hoards.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">At the time of the battle of Tabuk Hazrat Abu Bakr placed all of his wealth before the prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The prophet (Sm) asked, What have you left at your house?</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Allah and His Prophet, he replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">After the demise of the Prophet (Sm) Hazrat Abu Bakr (R) was elected the Caliph of the Islamic state.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">At that time some problems arose.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Some people claimed false Prophethood, someone denied to pay zakat and someone left Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Hazrat Abu Bakr solved all these problems with a very strong hand and reestablished peace and tranquility.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">He executed the administration of the country following the very ideals of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="145">During his caliphate the battle of Yamama took place in 633 AD.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">A number of Hafiz-e-Quran (those who memorized the Quran) accepted martyrdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">After this, fearing the danger of the Quran Hazrat Abu Bakr ordered to collect and preserve the holy Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">At that time there was neither paper as today nor printing press.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">For all these great deeds Hazrat Abu Bakr is called the saviour of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Hazrat Abu Bakr was a simple man.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He did not like luxurious life.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">He was learned, virtuous and charitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">He would like more and more to serve the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Hazrat Abu Bakr's contribution to Islam was incomparable.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">He has sacrificed everything for the cause of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">That is why the Prophet (Sm) said: Abu Bakr helped me more than all with his ability and wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">He died on 23 August, 634 AD. .</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Many problems may be solved following his ideals in the present world.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">We shall follow the ideals of Hazrat Abu Bakr (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The great hero and great warrior, Hazrat Umar Faruq was the second Caliph of the Muslim world.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He was born in the Quraish family of Makka in 583 A.D. He was called Abu Hafs.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The name of his father was Khattab and mother Hantam.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">At his boyhood Umar earned name and fame for his learning and virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">At his adult age he was a businessman.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">He was a good charactered, a famous wrestler, a brave warrior, poet and a good orator.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Even they declared prize to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Hearing this declaration Umar started running with an open sword to kill the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="168">On the way someone asked, Umar, where are you going?</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He replied with anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">To kill Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Umar felt insulted and became more angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He then straightly went to his sister's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">And before entering into the house heard a very sweet voice of the recitation of the Holy Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He entered into the house and beat and assaulted both his sister and her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">His sister said, The Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Umar then said, Let me see.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The sister said, No one can touch it with unholy, impure body.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">When Umar made him clean, the sister gave him the verses of the Quran to read.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Umar read the verses, the messages of Allah, became emotional and said, Where is the Prophet (Sm)?</sent>
				<sent id ="180">I shall accept Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Then he went to the Prophet (Sm), accepted Islam and expressed the determination to perform Salat publicly before, the Kaba.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Rome, Persia, Syria, Egypt and Palestine had been conquered during his Caliphate.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">He would see everybody equal in the eyes of the law.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">He had given severe punishment to his own son Abu Shahama for the offence of drinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">There was no want or dearth in the state during his caliphate.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He used to enquire about the condition of the people walking around the quarters at dead of night.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">While going to Jeruzalem, he by rotation walked on foot making his servant riden on the camel.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">He was very pious and afraid of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He had never been aftaid of anyone else but Allah, the Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">He introduced Hijri year.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Agriculture sector progressed much during his time.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">He had no security guard.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He has founded numerous mosques, bridges, hospitals, roads and high ways and schools for the betterment of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He excavated many canals for the same purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">He used to spend most of the times in Ibadat and recitation of the Holy Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">He was 63 years old at the time of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Many problems of the present world may easily be solved following his ideals.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">We shall be able to narrate the ideals of Hazrat Umar (R) and shall be associated with his ideals.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Ghani means rich.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Since he was one of the richest men of Arabia, that is why he was called Ghani.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">And Zun-Nurayn means the possessor of two lights.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">His father was Affan and mother Arwah.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">From his boyhood Hazrat Uthman was very polite and gentle.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">He was also famous for his learning and virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">At his young age he earned huge wealth and properties through business.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Hazrat Uthman accepted Islam at the age of 34, for which his uncle tortured him in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">In spite of all these tortures and sufferings he was firm and determined on Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">He purchased the required land for the expansion of Masjid-i- Nabawi.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Hazrat Uthman (R) always used to remain at the disposal of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="210">During the Caliphate of Hazrat Abu Bakr (R) and Hazrat Umar (R) he was their adviser.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">After the martyrdom of Hazrat Umar (R) Hazrat Uthman (R) was elected the Caliph.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">In this way he preserved the integrity of the Muslim nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Thus he attained fame as Jamiul Quran, the compiler of the Holy Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">As a result, disorder and restlessness appeared in the Islamic state.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">We shall be inspired by the generosity, magnanimity and dependence on Allah of Hazrat Uthman (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Hazrat Ali was the 4th Caliph of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">He was born at Makka in 600 A.D. Abut Talib was his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">He used to be with the Prophet (Sm) from his boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">When Hazrath Ali (R) was a boy of ten years the Prophet (Sm) received Prophethood.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Hazrat Ali accepted Islam and earned the honour of being the first Muslim among the youngs.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Hazrat Ali (R) was a very strong and brave warrior.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Hazrat Ali (R) only with one knock broke a very large and heavy iron gate of the fort.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Seeing this horrible condition the Jews were frightened and surrendered unconditionally.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">After the battle was over no strong brave hero could even lift that gate.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">From his boyhood upto the end of his life Hazrat Ali (R) led a very simple life.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">He did not like pomp and grandeur.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">He used to earn his livelihood with hard work and led a hard life.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">He had no pride and vanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">He used to adjust with rich and poor alike.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Hazrat Ali (R) possessed a nice and excellent character.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">He received martyrdom at the hand of an assailant while performing Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">We shall learn the ideals of bravery, modesty and simplicity from the life of Hazrat Ali (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Her surname was Tahira or holy woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">She was learned and very rich.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">She was well-known all over Arabia.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">She was born in the famous Quraish family of Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Her father was Khuwailid Ibn Asad.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Seeing the skill and honesty of the Prophet (Sm) Hazrat Khadija proposed her marriage with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The marriage was performed with the consent of his uncle.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The Prophet (Sm) was 25 years old at that time while Hazrat Khadija was 40 years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">While absorbed in meditation in the cave of Hira the Prophet (Sm) acquired the Prophethood and was frightened.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">He came to Hazrat Khadija (R) and said, Spread me with blanket I have been frightened.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Then Hazrat Khadija (R) took him to an expert of the revealed Book, Waraqa.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Hearng these things Waraqa said, Dont be afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Angel, Hazrat Jibrail came to him Muhammad (Sm) with revelation.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">She extended co-operation to the Prophet (Sm) by all means for preaching Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">She used to console him during hardship and inspire him for preaching Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">She was always very careful about the honour and dignity of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="249">She had deepest love and sincere devotion to her husband, the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="250">They are: Hazrat Mariam, Hazrat Khadija, Hazrat Fatima and Hazrat Aisha.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Hazrat Khadija died in Ramadan in the 10th year of Prophethood of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="252">We shall follow the ideals of the unequal character and great sacrifice of Hazrat Khadija (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="253">The original name of Imam Abu Hanifa is Numan.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">His father's name is Shabit.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">His father was a pious business man.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">He acquired higher education in different subjects of Islam from the then world famous qualified and virtuous teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The book was named as Fiqh.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">That was one of his great works.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">A Committee was formed under his leadership consisting of great Islamic scholars for the purpose, which was compiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The book was compiled after thirty years of hard labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">If the book had not been compiled, it would have been very difficult to practice Islamic rules and regulations.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">He was very pious, having excellent character.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Hence, he was respectable to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">This great man died in 150 Hijri.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">We shall try to know about him.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">And shall follow the ideals left by Imam Abu Hanifa in the field of learning and Islamic sciences.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">He was a descendant of the Prophet (Sm) both from paternal and maternal sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">From his very boyhood he was mild, gentle and devoted to knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">He had an extraordinary talent.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">In his boyhood he memorized the .whole of the Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">After the completion of preliminary education, he went to Baghdad for higher education.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">On the way, he, along with his `fellow travelers had been attacked by a group of dacoits.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Hazrat Abdul Qadir Jilani (R) was admitted into the famous Nizamiya Madrasah.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Here, he attained extra-ordinary scholarship in different branches of Islamic sciences.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">At Baghdad he had to bear unbearable hardship.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Even sometimes having leaves of the tree as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Yet he continued his study there.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">With the completion of his study he started teaching there.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Learned men and students from different parts of the world used to rush to him in quest of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">In his waz Mahfil (religious gatherings) huge number of people used to gather and listen to him attentively.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">He was very kind and humanitarian.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">He used to love the distressed and poor people and help them as much as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">He led a very simple life.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">He did not like any kind of pomp and luxury.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">He is regarded as the treatment of the saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Hence, he, is called Ghasul Azam or the great saint (pir).</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Hazrat Abdul Qadir Jilani (R) died at the age of 90 on the 11th Rabius Sani 561 Hizri.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">We shall grow up our life following the ideals of Hazrat Abdul Qadir Jilani (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The world famus saint Hazrat Shah Jalal (R) was born in Yemen in 595 Hijri./1198</sent>
				<sent id ="290">A.D. His father's name was Muhammad.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">At his early boyhood he lost his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">He grew up at the house of one of his relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">At his early age he attained deep knowledge and scholarship in the Quran, Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Figh and other Islamic subjects and then he attained a very high place in the spiritual adoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">A large number of non-Muslims were converted to Islam at his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">There is a story in the history about Hazrat Shah Jalal (R)s arrival in Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">There was a tyrant Hindu king, Gour Gobinda who was ruling in the Sylhet region at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">He used to oppress and torture the Muslim tenants inhumanly.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Even sacrificing cows for the Muslims was strictly prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">If anyone slaughtered a cow, he would have been killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Gour Gobinda became very angry and with the help of a spy identified Burhanuddin and brought him to Gobinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">On hearing all these things the Emperor sent Sekander Ghazi with a contingent of soldiers to conquer Gour Gobinda's stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">On the way Sekandar Ghazi met Hazrat Shah Jalal (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="304">With the inspiration of Hazrat Shah Jalal, Sekander Ghazi again advanced to fight against Gour Gobinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">At last Gour Gobinda fled away along with his people.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Sylhet came at the hand of the Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">He used to keep fasting throughout the year excepting the prohibited days and spent the whole night in the prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">He loved the poor and.distressed people.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Hezrat Shah Jalal (R) dedicated whole of his life for the cause of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Everybody, irrespective of Muslim and non-Muslim respects and reveres him till today.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">He died at the age of 150 in 745 Hijri.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Hazrat Shah Jalal (R) was a world famous saint and a Mujahid (fighter) for the cause of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">We shall follow his ideal of supreme sacrifice for the preaching and establishment of Islam.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
