<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-islam-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.272</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">314</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3376</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1044</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t108">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Allah has created us.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">He is our Cherisher.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">He is our Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">We are His servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Our life and death are at His disposal.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">He has arranged this.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">world for us in what a nice way!</sent>
				<sent id ="8">We enjoy all these.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">He has created us as best of the creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">We must be grateful to Him for enjoying His unlimited bounties.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">To lead life according to His rules and expressing gratitude for the bounties, is called Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">We shall aide by His Commandments and worship Him only.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Ibadat is an Arabic term.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It means obedience, obedience to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">And in Islami terminology to follow all the commandments and prohibitions of Allah is Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Allah has created everything for the betterment of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">He has created the Jinn and the human beings for His adoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Re says in the Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">I have created- Jinns and the human beings only for the reason that they may.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">We shall do good deeds and advise others for doing good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">They will get reward following our advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">We shall also.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">get the same reward.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">We must perform some unavoidable specified Ibadat like Salat, Sawm, Hajj and zakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">We shall perform these deeds in the same way as the Prophet (Sm) did and asked us to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">These Ibadats may be divided into three kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Ibadat jismi or physical Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Ibadat Mali or financial Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Ibadat mixed with both physical and financial.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The Iadat which is done with the help of the organs of the body is called physical Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">For example : Performance of five times Salat and fasting in the month of Ramjan (Ramadan).</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Of all the Ibadats, physical Ibadat is more important.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The Ibadats which are done with money or wealth are called Ibadat-e-Mali or financial Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">For example: Paying zakat, donation and other charities etc. Ibadat mixed with both physical and financial:</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Rather both are necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">For example: Hajj, Jihad etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Since Allah has created us for Ibadat, hence it is our duty to devote ourselves all the times in Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Now the question may arise whether it is possible to involve all times in Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Yes, it is possible to involve twenty four hours in Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">And this is Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">If we start for school with Bismillah, then Allah will protect us from all kinds of mishaps on the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">In this way we can devote ourselves all the time in Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Allah remains pleased for Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Thus, we can get happiness and pleasure in the worldly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">And the life hereafter will be very peaceful and there we can achieve the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">And those who do not do Ibadat and do not follow the path of Allah, Allah remains displeased upon them.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">They do not get peace in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">They will also get severe punishment of the hell in the after world.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Shall be able to explain the meaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">and significance of Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Shall be able to narrate the kinds of Ibadat and shall be careful to do Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Cleanliness is necessary for Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">No Salat can be performed without cleanliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">To touch the holy Quran is not allowed in an unclear condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">So it is necessary for us to remain always neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Taharat means cleanliness, like: Ablution, bathing etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">No Ibadat is accepted without cleanliness (holiness).</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Cleanliness makes the body healthy, the mind remains cheerful, and it helps to absorb in mindful study and other works.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Everybody loves those who remain clean and wear clean dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Which means: Cleanliness and purity are parts of Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Najasat means pollution, unclean and impurity.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">This is opposite to Taharat or cleanliness.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Najasat-e-Hagiqi are those matters which are usually hated by people.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Every body preserves his body, usable dresses and other materials from those things.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">But according to Islamic rules those are included in Najasat, like: Breaking ablution, having necessity for bathing etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">There are many ways to attain purity, and ablution is the best of those ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">No Salat is accepted without ablution.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">None can touch the holy Quran without ablution.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We shall have ablution before Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Rub your heads (with water) and (wash) your feet to the ankles.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The Prophet (Sin) said: I shall be able to recognize my Ummat, or the followers on the Day of Resurrection.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The Prophet (Sm) said: Because of wadu the faces, hands and elbows of my followers will be shining.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Hence, I shall be able to recognize my followers.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">So we should perform wadu in a nice way to get that reward and blessings.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">With the intention of having holiness and purity first of all two hands upto the wrist are to be washed.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">And if not fasting, inside of the mouth is to be washed with gargling.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Then to clean the nose three times with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">And then to wash the whole face in such a way that a single hair may not remain dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In the case of thick beard the water should reach upto the origin.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">then two hands are to be washed upto the elbows.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">And the head and ears are to be touched with the wet hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">At last, neck is to be touched with the backside of the fingers of two hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">After the touching (Masah) part is over two legs are to be washed up to the ankles properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">These formalities of wadu should be done one after another quickly and having no delay.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">This kind of purification is called Tayammum.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">With the intention-of attaining purification of the face it is to be touched with the two hands having clean soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Again, having two hands on the soil they should touch the hands upto the elbows.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Niyyat or intention (of attaining purification) is obligatory or Farz in Tayammum.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The literal meaning of Gosal is washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In Islamic terminology Gosal is to wash the whole body according to rule and with the intention of removing pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">At first, taking water in the right hand the two hands are to be washed upto the wrist.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">If any polluted things are in the body that should be washed, then two hands should be washed nicely.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">While gargling, the water should reach inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">the throat and then in nose.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">After, the wadu is over, water should be removed from the hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">No place of the body may remain dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The body should be cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">For the women, needless to open the coiffure or verbena.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Of course, water should reach upto the root of the hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Shall be able to explain Taharat and Najasat.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Shall be able to narrate the necessity of Taharat.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Shall be able to tell the rules of Wadu, Gosal and Tayammum.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Shall be habituated to remain holy and purified through regular wadu and gosal (ablution.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Among the five pillars of Islam, Kalima, Salat, Sawm, Hajj and Zakat, Salat is the most important one.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The literal meaning of Salat is to face towards any one.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Proceed on, to pray and to attain nearness.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Men can attain maximum nearness of Allah through Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">About its importance, Allah says.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Which means: Certainly prayer (Salat) restrains from shameful and unjust deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The Prophet (Sm) said: One who performs five times Salat with congregation, Allah will give him five rewards:</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Allah will remove the dearth of his livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">He will set him free from the punishment in the grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The ledger of his life will be given at the right hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He will cause him to cross the Pulsirat Bridge in an electric speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He will award him the heaven without taking any account.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Which means: Salat is (like) a pillar of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">One who establishes Salat constructs the pillar of Islam like that of a building.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">And he who has given up Salat, has broken Islam (like a building).</sent>
				<sent id ="119">In the same way, he who establishes Salat, will easily enter into the paradise:</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Allah has commanded to perform Salat in time.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Salat is not established if it is not performed in time.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">In this matter, Allah says: Surely, performing Salats (prayers) at the specified times is compulsory for the believers.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">We must know the correct time of performing Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Fajar : The time of Fajar Salat begins from Subhi Sadiq and ends with the rising of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">This bright light increases gradually and then the sun rises.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The shadow of every thing just at noon is called (Saya Asli) the original shadow.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">For example, the shadow of a stick of three yards length, just at noon is one yard.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Therefore, when the shadow of the stick will be seven yards, the time of Zuhar Salat (prayer) will be over.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">But to perform Asar Salat is Makruh (defective) when the sun takes yellow colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The time of Maghrib Salat is very short.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Hence, the performance of this Salat should be started as soon as the time begins.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Isha : The time of Isha Salat begins after the end of Maghrib Salat and it lasts upto Subhi Sadiq.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Of course, it is better to perform it within the first half of the night.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">to perform the Salat after midnight is Makruh (defective).</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Vitr : The time of vitr and Isha Salat is the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Vitr Salat is to be performed after Isha Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Vitr Salat cannot be performed before Isha Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">A brief Chart of the time table of Salat is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Just at the time of the sunrise.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Just at noon.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">When the sun takes red colour till it sets.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Only the Asar Salat of that day could be performed, if not performed for any genuine reason.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">To perform all kinds of Farz, Wajib, Sunnat and Nafol Salats is pohibited in the above mentioned times.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">After the Fajar Salat till the sun does not rise.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">After Asar upto the sunset.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Any kind of Salat at the time of Fajar except the Sunnat of the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">To start any Salat when the Takbir of Farz Salat is given.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">To perform Salat before the Farz Salat of Maghrib at the time of Maghrib Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">To perform Salat when the Imam delivers his jumua sermon (Khutba).</sent>
				<sent id ="150">To perform Isha Salat after the mid-night.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The best (Mustahab) time of Salat: The best time of performing Salat is given below:</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Performing Fajar Salat after the brightening of Subhi Sadiq.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Performing Zuhar Salat at a little delay during the summer season.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Performing Maghrib Salat without any delay.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Preforming Isha Salat during the first one third of the night.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Every work has some rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">One can get good result if he does the work according to the rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The Prophet (Sm) taught us Salat practically for its being an important ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">When one wishes to perform Salat, he must be certain that no Shart or pre- condition of Salat is dropped.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">He is looking at me.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Women are to bind hands over the chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Niyyat or intention in mind is enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">But oral pronunciation is better.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Then we shall recite `Sana.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Then we shall recite Fatiha Sura after saying Auzubillahi minash shaitanir rajim, bismillahir Rahmanir Rahim.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">We shall say-Amin in mind reciting Fatiha.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Shall recite Subhana Rabbial Azim in the Ruku at least three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">And then stand straight saying Samiallahu liman hamida.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">And shall say Rabbana lakal hamd in that standing position, then shall go to Sijda saying ALLAHU AKBAR.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Shall say at least three times Subhana Rabbial A'ala in the Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">and then we shall stand up straight saying ALLAHU AKBAR.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In this way we shall complete the first Rakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Now the second Rakat begins.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">We shall recite Sura Fatiha saying Bismillahir Rahmanir Rahim.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Being sitted, shall recite .</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Thus the Salat having two Rakats will be completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Only Tashahhud is to be uttered after the second Rakat in the Farz Salat of three Rakats.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Then stand Straight saying Takbir, then saying Bismillahir, Rahmanir Rahim shall recite only Sura Fatiha adding no other Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">And then perform Ruku and Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">And then recite only Fatiha after saying Bismillahir Rahmanir Rahim adding no other Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Then after Ruku and Sijda shall stand for the fourth Rakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">We shall be able to say the rules of performing Salat and we shall perform Salat correctly.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Salat can be performed at home or at any other places.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">But mosque is the best place to perform Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Twenty seven times rewards could be found if Salat is performed in congregation at the mosque.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Mosque is the house of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">And bow down your heads with those who bow down (in worship).</sent>
				<sent id ="188">It means, perform Salat with congregation.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Even stress has been given to perform Salat in congregation in the battle field facing the enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">We shall be able to narrate the importane of performing Salat in congregation and shall perform Salat regularly in congregation.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">There are some very important conditions for Salat without a single condition Salat will be void.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">These are called essentials (Farz) of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The number of Farz in Salat is fourteen.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Of these, seven are preparatory before the beginning of Salat which are called Ahkam or Shart.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Cleanness and purity of the place of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">To perform Salat facing the Qibla (Ka'ba).</sent>
				<sent id ="197">To perform Salat during the time of the Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Niyyat or intention of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">There are seven other Farz inside the Salat which are called Arkan.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Takbir Tahrima or saying ALLAHU AKBAR, having Niyyat of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">To perform Salat standing, if unable, sitting, if unable, lying with hints.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Last sitting where Tashahhud, Darud, Dua Masura are to be uttered and complete the Salat with Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">To come out of Salat with the help of some deed (Such as, Salam).</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Wajib (bounded duties) in Salat are fourteen.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">To read Sura Fatiha in every Rakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">To add any Sura or part of Sura with Sura Fatiha.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">To maintain chronology of Ruku, Sijda and the verses of the Quran read in the Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">To sit straight between two Sijdas.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">To perform Rukons of the Salat correctly.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">To stand straight after Ruku.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">To recite Tashahhud.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">To recite Dua Qunut in the vitr Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">To do Telawat Sijda if any verse of Sijda is recited in the Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">To keep both the hands and knees on earth during Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">To say additional six Takirs during the two Id Salats.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">To complete the Salat saying Assalamu Alaikum wa Rahmatullah.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The Prophet (Sm) apart from Farz and Wajib used to perform some other things.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">These are called Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The prophet (Sm) did not give so much stress for these activities as he did for Farz and Wajib.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Hence, there is no need for Sahu Sijda if any of these activities is dropped.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Yet these should be performed, because the Prophet (Sm) himself did these and asked others to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">To make open the fingers of the two hands, facing the Qibla at the time of saying Takbir.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Not to bow down head at the time of saying Takbir Tahrima.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">To say Takbir loudly for the Imam (on the part of the Imam).</sent>
				<sent id ="225">To recite Sana.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">To recite Aujubillah.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">To add Bismillah before Fatiha in every Rakat.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">To recite Sura Fatiha only in the third and fourth Rakat of Farz Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">To say Amin After Fatiha.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">To utter Sana, `Aujubillah and Amin silently.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">To follow Sunnat Tariqa in the Qirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">To recite Tasbih at least three times both in Ruku and Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">To spread out the left leg and to sit on it at the time of sitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">To hint with the Shahadat finger while saying La ilaha in Tashahhud.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">To recite Darud in the last sitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">To recite Dua Masura or any other Dua like this after Darud.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">To say Salam to the right side first and then to the left.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">These are called Mustahab.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Some Mustahabs of the Salat are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">To look at the place of Sijda while standing in Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">To try to check from sneezing, gasping and coughing as far as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">To recite the Quran calmly.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">To put the head between the two hands in Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">To recite short Sura in Maghrib Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">To read Tasbih more than three times in Ruku and Sijda while performing Salat alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">At the beginning of Salat we bind hands saying Allahu Akbar, with Niyyat.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">This is called Takbir Tahrima.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">With this Takbir all deeds and wordings other than those of Salat become Haram (strictly prohibited).</sent>
				<sent id ="249">If any one does any prohibited thing then the Salat will be `invalid.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">We should know those things which break the Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The causes of breaking Salat are given below: l.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">To offer greetings to anyone or to respond to the same from others during Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">To talk in the Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">To eat something in the Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">To drink anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">To laugh loudly.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">To cry loudly for any worldly hardship.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">To say Uh, or Ah, because of pain or any other disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">To recite the Quran looking into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">To turn the face away from the direction of the Qibla.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">To work with two hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">To stand comparatively ahead of the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">To offer Sijda in any impure place.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">To pray for any worldly (harmful) thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">To cough again and again willingly for nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">If any Farz of the Salat is dropped.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">To say `Alhamdulillah'hearing any good news in the Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">To say `Inna lillah on any bad news.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">To say `Alhamdulillah after sneezing.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">To say `Yarhamukumullah responding to sneezing.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">To detect a mistake of anyone other than his Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">There are some activities which make Salat defective and cause for less reward though the Salat is not nullified.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">These activities are called `Makruh.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">We should keep ourselves away from these activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">To snap the finger in the Salat, without any reason.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">To perform Salat without putting a cap on the head out of idleness.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">To roll the cloth for saving it from the dust.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">To move the cloth, button, beard etc. uselessly.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">To wear such dress that no people like to put on for going to the bazar and in any congregation.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">To begin Salat having necessity of discharging stool or urine.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">To look at this way or that.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">To spread out two hands up to the elbows in Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">To stand within the `Mehrab that is reserved for the Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">To wear any dress having picture of animals on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">To stand alone in the back row, while there is room (vacancy) in the front row.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">To extend Salam with hints.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">To do Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">only with forehead or only with the nose.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">To stand as the Imam on a high place without any reason.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">To sit with fore knees without any reason.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">To perform Salat with closed eyes except for more concentration.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">To bow down for Ruku before the Qirat is completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">To drop any Sunnat in the Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">To raise the legs from earth during Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">To count the verses or Tasbih with the finger in Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">To have anything in the mouth which distrubs the Qurat (recitation from the Quran).</sent>
				<sent id ="297">We shall be able to narrate the causes of breaking and defecting Salat, and shall be cautious of those activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Sahu means mistake.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">If any mistake is done in the Salat there to offer two Sijdas at the last sitting is obligatory.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">These are called Sijda Sahu or Sijda for the rectification of mistake.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">If any Wajib is dropped out of mistake.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Delay in performing any Farz or to break the continuity like: performing Sijda before the Ruku.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">To perform any Farz more than once in the place of only once.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">There are some verses in the holy Quran that, one who recites or hears, must perform Sijda.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">No matter whether the full verse or a part of the verse is recited.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Sijda must be performed on reciting or hearing the very word Sijda in the verse concerned.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">It will be a sin if Sijda is not performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">I (devil) have also got the order of Sijda but I denied and became the heller.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Sijda Telawat is to be done facing the Qibla after standing with the Niyyat of Sijda Telawat saying ALLAHU AKBAR.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">After Sijda be raised to standing position saying ALLAHU AKBAR.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Only one Sijda is enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">There is no need for Tashahhud and Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">There are four Shafts or conditions for Sijda Telawat.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">We shall be able to narrate the rules of Sijda-i-Tilawat and shall perform the Sijda Tilawat.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
