<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-phyStud-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.461</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">305</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3666</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1097</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t115">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Everybody likes to express himself through various activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Dancing may be one of the activities through which one can show his physical abilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Dancing is performed in rhythm along with music.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Folk dances in the country side are very popular and people enjoy it thoroughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">There are various kinds of folk dances and these can also be practiced in educational institutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">These dances are performed in a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">So the students of an educational institution can par ticipate in such group dances.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">It not only gives recreation but also provides physical exercises.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The folk dances are bamboo stick dance (Ion dance), small stick dance (kathi dance), jhumur dance etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Bamboo stick dance is very popular in the country side.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">It creates enthusiasm among the performers as well as the spectators.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">It is a rhythmic activity and cannot be performed without music.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The students of educational institutions can take part in this activity in a group.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It is a good media for learning defensive technique and preservation of health.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The dance can be organized on a competitive basis where the performers can show their excellence.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The bamboo stick dance has several parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">These are: a. friendly dance (Shoka Nritya), b.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Ali dance (dance of showing bravery), c.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Victory dance (Buoy nritya), d.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">All these dances are performed with rhythm.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">On a sig nal from the teacher the drummer starts playing the drum and the participants start their performance.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">These are the dances of primary stages.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The students will take the cane shield and the stick in their left hand and stand in files.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">They will be equal in number in each file.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The students will reach to the starting point with double marching.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The students start marking time on the spot after the second signal.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The students will move for ward in files when the teacher gives the third signal.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">On the fourth signal, the students will stop manning time.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">This activity is called Paitara.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The teacher will not say anything but will blow his whistle to indicate the s nal.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Signal one: The drummer beats one loud sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The players will stand in two files with even number of players.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">But the tapering part of the stick will still be held by the left hand along with the shield.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The position of the hands will be straight and placed on both the thighs.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Signal two: The drum will be beating rhythmically and the students will start performing the activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Say, there are two files of students.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The toes of the right legs of the first file will he placed on the front of the left leg.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Similarly the toes of left legs of the second file will he placed on the front of the right leg.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The raising of hands and placing of toes will he done simultaneously with the rhythm of the drum heating.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">When the students raise their sticks at left and right direction their eyes will .follow</sent>
				<sent id ="41">the movement of the sticks.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Signal three: Both the files will move forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">When they reach the cud of the ground, they will turn back.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Signal four: The participants of both the teams will continue the performance on the same place.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Signal five: The drum beating and activities will be stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The shoka dance is required to be practised thoroughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">This may be performed in any particular occasion.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">the performers as well as the spectators enjoy it very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">This dance is very much known as Brotochari Nritya.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">It is so named after Gurusadaya Dutt who innovated this dance and introduced it successfully among the young children.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The dance is performed with two small sticks in hand and with patriotic song.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The song motivates and inspires people to work for building up the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The students can get a lot of enthusiasm in the dance and build their health.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The stick dance is performed in an open space.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">It has 3 parts: rhythm, music and folk song.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Equipment: To small sticks for each student.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The sticks are generally 2 -2.5 long and tapering towards the end, one small drum with drumstick and whistle.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">i) The students will stand in files with two sticks in hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">There will be 3 files and number of students in each file will be even.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">ii) The students will dance in the circles.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">There will be 3 circles.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The first file will form the inner circle.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">iii) The circles will be prepared in the ground with white lime.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In the preparation of the dance; the students will stand in files facing the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">They will hold two sticks in both hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">On a signal, they will lower down the hand at the hip level.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Then they will bring it at the chest level on the next signal.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The students start marking time standing on the same spot rhythmically and drum also starts beating.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">On getting the next signal, the students enter the ground and move to the circles prepared for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">When all of them are in proper circles, the teacher will give another signal to stop marking time.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">These are the preparatory parts of the dance.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Now everything is set for the actual dance.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">In this dance also, the signals are very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">In order to perform this in a befitting manner the signals along with the dance sequences are given below:</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Signal 1: The three files will move forward keeping the circles at their left.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They will follow the rhythm of the drum.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The rhythm is dhatin-ta, dhatin-ta, tak-ta, dhatin-ta.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Signal 2: They will move fast by making double mark time.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">They will follow the same rhythm of the drum.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Signal 3: They will stop marking and the two sticks will be taken at the left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The odd members of each file will make an about turn to the even number holders.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">While the even numbers will not make any turn.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">For example-the odd numbers 1,3,57, 9 etc. will turn to the even members 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Signal 4: The students will now cross the sticks in front of each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">This activity will be performed seven times.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Signal 6: The performers will strike the opponent's stick once by the right and then by the left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">While striking, they will make sound with their feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Signal 8: The students will slowly come back to their original position and leave the ground filewise.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The third file will leave first and they will be followed by the second and first files.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The stick dance has many varieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">It can be performed singly or in twos.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">It can also be performed sitting on the knees or on the ground and even in lying position too.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The stick dance is performed with patriotic songs.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">During the activity, they sing the song in a chorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">It is a folk dance and is very popular in countryside.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The dance is performed in a group.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">It is a good form of recreation and gives a lot of physical exercises.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The dance should be practised in educational institutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The girl students can per form the dance very well.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">This is also a rhythmical activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The dance is prac tised with the drum beating rhythmically.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The students will fall in two files.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">One file will be smaller in number than the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The smaller file will stand at the left of the bigger one.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Every student will take two pairs of Jhumurs in their hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Sequence of the dance: After making files, the teacher will give signal by blowing his whistle.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The sequences of jhumur dance are stated below with the numbers of signals.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Signal 1: The students will make a small jump on the spot with both hands on the hip.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Signal 2: The students will make two circles in the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The teacher will take his position in the centre of the circle.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Signal 3: The students will turn left facing the teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The drum will start beat ing and the students will take necessary space by extending their hands side vise.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">They will be marking time while they take space.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Signal 4: The students will stop marking time and their hands will come back to their original position.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The right and left feet will take the steps alternately.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The teacher will count the number 1, 2 and At each count, the students will dance following the sequence.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">When the teacher counts the number three, both hands will come forward and down.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The teacher will continue the sequence until a uniform sound is made.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">This sequence of dance is to be practised twice.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Signal 6: The left hand will circle around the head and will then lower down in front of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">At third count the hands will come down.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Signal 7: The right hand will perform the same sequence of dance as done in signal 6.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Signal 8: Now two hands will perform this sequence simultaneously.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">1-7 steps are to be taken by the students under the same counting.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">In this sequence, the dance will be progressing.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">There are many variations of the sequences of jhumur dance.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The teacher can innovate new sequences which will be very attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The dance can also be performed with songs.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">These songs are mostly folk in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">An example of a flok song is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Nobody can deny the necessity of learning swimming.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">It has manifold useful ness.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The people of Bangladesh are closely associated with swimming.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">They learn swimming from the early childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Swimming is a very good exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">It helps to keep a person physically fit.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Swimming can be practised by persons of any age group.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The students should learn and practise it regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Swimming pool is the proper place where swimming techniques can be learnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">But it can be learnt in other water bodies which are safe.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Precautionary steps for the learners: The pool should be shallow and water should be clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The arrangement should be made to use the artificial aids to buoyancy.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The learners having skin diseases should not be allowed to swim and they should maintain healthful habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">They must not spit or urinate in the water of the pooi.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Learn breathing with nose and mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Try to take deep breathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Generally, there are four styles of swimming.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">These are-Front crawl, Back stroke, Breast stroke and Butterfly.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In this chapter, the techniques of front crawl and back stroke are described.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It is a very competitive style of swimming.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The swimmers are to work very hard to learn the technique of the front crawl.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The students are naturally fond of learning this style of swimming.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Breathing will be done by the mouth when it will be turned either at the right or at the left.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The legs will be closed together and will remain inside the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The heels will break the water surface only.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The leg-action starts from the hips and ripples down in the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It is a scissors like action and the feet hit the water finishing with a whiplash effect.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The hands will move forward alternately.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The hand is slightly cupped while it pulls water.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">In each movement of a hand the scissors-like leg action will be 3-4 times.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The swimmer will take air when his head comes above water and he will breath out into the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">This is also a very good style in competitive swimming.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The swimmers can float on the back and feel comfortable in this swimming.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">They do not face any difficulty in breathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The stroke starts when the swimmer get into water.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The body remains horizontal in position with the hip slightly below the surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The head is com fortably pillowed on the water and the ears are just below the surface of the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The eyes will be usually looking upwards and slightly towards the feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The arm action operates continuously without pause..</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The hands enter into water alternately with little finger first.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">It pulls water sideways.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It works like the blade of an oar.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">There are usually six leg-beats to one complete arm cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The leg will never be up of the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The movements of the legs and the arms are integrated and systematic.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The swimmers can practise breathing as per convenience.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Athletics is also called the track and field sport.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The running events are held in a track while the jumping and throwing events are performed in a field.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">An athlete acquires speed, stamina, endurance, power through these activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The students like athletic sports and take part in it with much enthusiasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">In fact, athletic competition is the most attractive one and it dates back in the ancient Olympics.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">In the modern Olympic competitions, the athletic events become the centre of all attractions.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Athletics has two sections viz-track and field.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The track events are short, mid dle and long distance runs.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The running events up to 400 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">1000 metres and beyond 1000 metres fall in the category of short, middle and long distance runs respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The start of short distance run is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">If an athlete can not take proper start for the sprints, he can not succeed in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">There are 3 types of starts for short run or sprint, middle and long distance runs.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">These are bunch, medium and elongated.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The 50m. and 80m.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">runs are called dash or sprint.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The athletes are to run as fast as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">So the start of the sprint plays an important role to win the run.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">This will give him self-confidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">During this run the co-ordi nation of the hand with the feet is very essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Generally the sprinters use crouch start for the fast running events.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The athlete will put his both hands and one knee just behind the starting line.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The other knee will be in raised position.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Both the feet will be set on the starting blocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He will run on his feet and will lean forward shightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He will look forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">In this sprint, the athlete will maintain the same speed from the start to finish.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">After crossing the finishing line, he will not stop but runs a few metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">It is an interesting event for the new athletes.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Traditionally, the new athletes try to cross the bar in scissors style.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">But it does not help them to jump over a good height.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Several modem methods have been invented and proved effective in crossing the bar.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">These methods are western roll, straddle or belly roll, fosbery flop etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Among these methods, fosbery flop has been proved most effective and it is the latest one also.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The athletes use this techniques now a days.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">It is the best for the beginners to learn western roll first.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">If the athlete learns the western roll well, it will be easier for him to learn the straddle roll.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The techin ques of these two methods are more or less same.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The difference between these two methods is the technique of take off.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The athlete will make an approach run of 7-9 steps for take off.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The approach run will be of 3 00-450 angle.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The toe of the take off foot will be placed around 18 from the crossbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">He will then turn by twisting his hip and land on his left leg and on both the arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The athlete will now land in the pit on his back or on his right side.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">This style of high jump has been proved most effective and the technique is very scientific.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">It is quite different from other styles of high jump.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">His landing is also different from other styles.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">He lands on the neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">For the safety of the neck and the head, high foam must be used under the cross bar.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The main objective of long jump is to cross a distance as far as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The athlete will warm-up his body thoroughly before taking part in long jump.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">To cross a good distance, he is to run in high speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">So he is to practice good approach run and to take off correctly from the take off board.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">He will land on both feet, his knees will be tucked in his chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Approach run: The athlete is to run from a short distance with high speed.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">This speed helps him to raise the body in the air and to cross a good distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">This will help him to raise the body in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">This walking in the air helps to gain distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">His heels will land first in the pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The knees will be bent a little and the balance of the body will be maintained by the hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Then the athlete takes a step and lands on he other foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">H.e then takes the final jump and lands on both feet like long jump.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">It is like a bouncing ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The hop is a low bounce, the step slightly higher rnd the final jump is the highest of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">To do good in this event, the athlete is required to have good practice on long jump.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The chest will be kept up and the other foot will be driven forward to take the step.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The arms swing vi obtain a more powerful jump.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Step: if the athlete take the hop on left foot, he will take the next step with hi right loot.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">It is a very good exercise for the school children.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">When it is organized on competitive basis, the children enjoy it very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The ball will be caught by all the fingers of the hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The students will take at least 10-15 steps to throw the ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">When the bail is thrown, the opposit hand and foot will be towards the direction of the ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The throwing hand will come from behind the shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The students can practise the throwing regularly in order to get proficiency in this event.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Carram belongs to the group of indoor games.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">It is very popular among the rural and the urban people.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The game of carrom is played between two or four players.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">In the single competition, the two players sit at the board face to face.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">But in doubles game, the players of the same team sit face to face.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The car are se within the circle in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The red is called the queen and is placed in the centre of the circle.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The white and black carrommen are set in the circle alternately.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The chance of the first strike at the start of the game is decided by a toss.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">He strikes the carrom men with the striker.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">If any player can pocket the queen rightly, he earns 3 points.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">A player will continue his striking so long he can pocket his carrommen or queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">But once he fails, his change goes and his opponent gets the chance to strike.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The player or the team wins the board if he or the team can pocket all his or team's carrommen.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">He will count the opponent's carrommen left in the board.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">A game is counted by 25 points.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The player or team will win if he or the team can score 25 point first.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The game is conducted by an umpire.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">This is an indoor recreational game and is very interesting to the young as well as aged persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The game requires cool temperament.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Because in each hole or circle, there exists a number.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The marbles thus placed, will bring a total number these numbers are counted finally to decide the winner.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Equipment: Bagatelle board, small glass marbles., a small wooden stick and score sheet.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The bagatelle board contains several holes and, semi-circles made with iron pins.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Each hole and semi-circles has been marked with different numbers.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">A small wooden passage has been set at the right side of the board.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">It has been partition with a thin piece of board.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">A similar passage is made at the bottom of the board.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The glass marbles are placed in this base at the bot tom.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">The bagatelle player pushes the marbles one by one with the help of the stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">When the marbles set either in a hole or in a semi-circle, he scores that number mentions in the spot.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">If the marble does not settle in any hole or semi circle, the score will be zero.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">There are two special marks in the board.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">One is T.A. meaning Try Again and the other is LTP which means Lost Total Points Scoring:</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The total score of this game is The player scoring these marks wins the board.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Ludo is also included as an event of indoor games.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">It is a very simple but exit ing game.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">There are two types of ludu game-box ludo and snake ludo.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">a. Box Ludo: Ludo board with painted boxes, 16 four coloured counters, a dice and a dice box.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Snake Ludo: Ludo board with snakes and ladders of different shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">4 pieces of colourd counters, a dice arid a dice box.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Ludo game is played by 2-4 persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">In the box ludo, the 4 sets of coloured counters are set in their respective homes.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The players throw the dice with the help of the dice-box on the board.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">In this way, the game progress.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Since 6 is the opening number and if a player gets 6 at one chance, he will try again.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">If a player gets three 6 consecutively his score or the number, he got will be lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">D the game, a player can attack his opponent's counter when it comes across the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">In that case the attacked counter will be out and will be sent back to its home again.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Method of Snake Ludo: The player who starts first, sets the spotted dice on the board.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">If the counter reaches the bottom of the ladder, it goes to the top of it automatically.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">But if it falls in the mouth of a snake, it will come down to the tail of the snake.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">In this way, the game progresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">The player who reaches 100 first, wins the game.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
