<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-phyStud-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.567</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">200</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2091</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">827</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t120">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In the animal world around us, we find varieties of animals most of which are vertebrate and some are invertebrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Among the vertebrate, human being is the greatest of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">He has acquired unique characteristics among these animal world.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The parts i. e. the limbs do not clash each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The human body has two types of organs: external and internal.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The external organs consist of the head, mouth, eyes, ears, nose, throat, chest, belly, hands, legs etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Each organ has its own function which is separated from others.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Each organ has its own function which is separated from others.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Though the organs are same for each human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">yet the appearance does not resemble each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">There is an excellent co-ordination among the organs of the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">We know that the human body is composed of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The cells which form a partic ular organ, have specific functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The structure and functions of the organs are different from each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Bones, muscles, blood, fat etc. have specific functions to perform.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Thus the specific cells form the specific limbs and these limbs function under a systems.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The Organs of the human body work under different systems with mutual co- operation and co-ordination.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Nervous system brain, spinal cord peripheral nerves Receipt of various reactions in the brain arid action accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Endocrine glands Thyroid, Adrenal Pituitary Glands etc Stimulants through plasma.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Reproductive Male reproductive organs genitals, testis, seminal vesicles.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Female organs ovary, genitals, uterus etc. Reproduction of child.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">We may compare the human body with an engine.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">In order to keep the engine in a running condition, it needs petrol, mobil, water, battery etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Similarly food is required to keep the body healthy and fit for work.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Food is the fuel of the human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Food is required from birth to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Food is the materials that we eat and digest.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It grows the organs and keeps the body fit for working by producing energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Without food the human body cannot survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Food has multifarious functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">One particular food cannot serve all purposes of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Every kind of food has its own functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">There re chemical sub stances in food.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">These chemicals actually perform the functions according to its nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">These are called element of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">All these elements are required to be present in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">If any element of food remains absent then it affects the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The body becomes susceptible to certain disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">And continuous absence of a particular element couses malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The children suffer very much from malnutrition and die a premature death.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Protein comes from two sources, viz- animal protein and vegetable protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Fish, meat, egg etc. fall in group of animal protein and lentils, soyabean etc. in the group of vegetable protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">a) It helps the growth of the body and recovers the loss caused by work.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">b) It produces energy and heat in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">c) It forms the muscles of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The carbohydrate is available mainly from vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Rice , wheat, potato, sugar, gur (from sugarcane or date palm trees), ripe fruits etc. are the sources of carbohydrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Carbohydrate is also found in milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">It produces heat and energy in the body and also helps to digest the protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The animal and vegetable sources supply the fat and oil in our day to day diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Animal fat, ghee, butter come from the animal sources whereas mustard oil,.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">soyabean oil, nut oil etc. belong to vegetable group.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">a) It keeps the skin soft and smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">b) It produces heat and energy in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">c) It saves the protein in the body from decay.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Vitamin is essential for human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Without vitamin the body can not sustain.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Vitamin has been classified in 6 groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The vegetables like cabbage, carrot, palong, shajina etc. Supply the vitamin A to the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">a) It keeps the eyes healthy and removes nightblindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">b) It helps to remove the roughness of the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">c) It increases the preventive capability of contagious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">a) It keeps the nervous system strong and active.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">b) It increases the digestive power.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">c) It increases the blood volume of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">d) It makes the food of carbohydrate workable in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">It creates preventive capability of the body from being attacked by diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">butter, bone marrow, cod-liver etc. are the sources of vitamin D. It helps hu u strong bone and teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Calcium and phosphorsus are the main chemi cak fibone and teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Vitamin D helps these chemicals.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Vitamin E is found in green vegetables, liver, heart of the animals, egg etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">It increases the capability of reproductive system and milk in the mother's breast.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It is available in green vegetables, carrot, tomato, egg, soyabean oil etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">It helps to coagulate blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Generally the table salt, milk, curd, egg, meat, liver, small fish and fruits like mango, banana, papaya etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Supply the mineral salt in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">a) The calcium and phosphorus help build the bones and teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">b) It protects body from anemia caused due to absence of iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">c) Iodised salt helps build the mental function of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Water is life.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Human being cannot survive without water.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The body of a person contains 70% water of the total weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">A person should drink at least 6-8 glasses of water per day.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Water comes from natural sources like springs, rivers, tanks and from fruits etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">It also helps the body digest and absorp food.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">b) It reaches the food to all the parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The body needs all types of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The food which is full of vitamins contains other necessary elements is called balanced food.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The contents of balanced food vary according to age, sex, labour, weather etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">But for the aged persons, the balanced food will be different.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Even the diet of the patients, pregnant woman will be different from that of normal diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The balanced food or diet should be tasteful and acceptable.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Normally we should take food containing 2500-3000 calories as per our requirement of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">We should select balanced diet or food of less cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The balanced food does not mean costly food.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">It is possible to select low cost food to meet our daily requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">We suffer from various diseases which are caused due to the shortage of vitamins and necessary elements of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">We should know what are the diseases and their causes particularly the food related reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">There are diseases which are caused due to the absence of some food elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">In those eases, the wanting food elements are to be taken more than usual quantity.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The sources of food elements have been described in the foregoing paras of this chapter.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The puttrid and adulterated food is very harmful for human consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Germs oldiseases and acid are created in these rotten foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">If these foods are taken, germs are taken in which couses various diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The stomach diseases break out due to rotten food.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">dysentery, indigestion, constipation etc. are caused due to this putrid and adulterated food.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Rotten and adulterated food loses the real taste of foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Besides this, the nutritional value is lost totally.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">This sort of food is so harmful that it may cause death.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">No food can be preserved naturally for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">If it is kept so, it may become putrid and stale.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">But if the food is preserved keeping nutritional value intact, then it can he eaten without any problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Such arrangement is called the preservation of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The preserved food can be taken when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Some methods of preservation are described below.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">This is the easiest way of preserving food.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">In this way, the watery substance is dried up and germs cannot grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Fish, meat can be dried and preserved for future consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The germs can not survive in salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">So the food can be preserved if salt is applied to it properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Vinegar or lemon juice can be used for preservation of food: Vinegar or lemon juice destroys the germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">So food can be preserved in vinegar or lemon juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Green mango, olive, green lemon can be preserved in the lemon juice or vinegar.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Seasonal fruits like green mango, olive, plums etc. can he preserved in oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">If any one remains dirty, he .is</sent>
				<sent id ="126">very much susceptible to skin diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">His dirty clothes carry germs of various diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Physical unseemliness and dirty habits are main reasons for skin diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Among the skin diseases, itches arc the most disturbing one.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This disease has an irritating sensation in the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">It is a contagious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">It causes mainly due to dirtiness in habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Skin loses its preventive power due to malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">So a kind of germ causes this disease when one remains dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Itching is the principal symptom of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The irritating sensation becomes so high that skin bruises.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The bruises thus create small sores or boils on the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The patient may have fever for such sores.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The boils may form pus.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">This pus becomes full of germs and spreads the disease through out the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">It is a very painful skin disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">It spreads through a kind of fungus.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It is a contagious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">This disease spreads through the infected person.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">At first if grows in the covered part of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Gradually it spreads on the different parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">It looks like a circular ring.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Small sores grow around the ring and severe itching starts till it is bleeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">If treatment is not done in time it spreads.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It is another kind of skin disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Generally it erupts on the hand or leg. it has some genetically linkage.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">It may be hereditary or due to some allergy.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Very small sores are found in the affected body.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Each sore bears sonic gummy substance and comes out from the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">This thing spreads around the affected part.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">At the primary stage, the sores become soft and later on these are dried up.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">A severe itching tendency occurs in the affected area.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The patient should be separated from others and kept in a room.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The clothes and used bed sheets: towels etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Should be washed with hot water.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Care should be taken to keep the surrounding neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">None should use the patient's clothes and other materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Treatment for ring worm-Ointment of Crisophenic acid is to be applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">But this should be clone on the advice of the physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Treatment of eczema-As per doctor's advice, potasium permanganate calamin lotion are to be applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Medicine on antibiotic and antihistamine may also be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The louse is a parasitical insect.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">It grows due to unseemliness of the body, clothings, bedding.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">It survives by sucking blood staying in the hair of the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">A disease named typhus is spread by the louse.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The hair is to be shortened.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">(7lOthings are to be boiled properly and regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The tooth is invaluable to every human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Food is masticated in the mouth with the help of glandial Juices.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">This helps mastication on and digestion also.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The tooth keeps the beauty of the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">After the meal, food particles stay in between the teeth and it causes tooth decay if it is not cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">So everybody should take proper care of the teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The teeth should be brushed regularly after taking meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">It helps the longevity of the teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Massage should also be done to the gums.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">This keeps the gums healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Fresh vegetables and foods rich in calcium.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Fruits etc. are to be taken regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">If there is any dental disease, the dental surgeons should be consulted.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Our body is covered with skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">We get senses about heat, touch, pain through the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">It covers the body and protects the inner organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">balances the heat of the body and perspiration is done through the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">We should keep the skin clean from the attack of various skin diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Vitamin A and C and other lat related food should he taken to give nutrition to the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">To keep the skin smooth and soft, body lotion etc. may be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">When a girl child reaches tile age round 9-14, she feels changes physically and mentally.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The girl moves towards puberty.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The menstruation occurs in every months with an interval of 28 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">It continues for 3 to 7 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">During menstruation healthy girls normally do not feel any pain or uneasiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">During menstruation the girls should follow certain healthful habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">These are- Menstruation is not a disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">It is quite natural for every female person, there is any complication the doctor (gynecologists) should be consulted.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
