<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>6-phyStud-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.43</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">438</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5420</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1475</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">easy</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t114">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Through these games we can develop bodies and get pleasure for our mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">For the game all students will have to stay in the circle in a scattered position.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">With the signal the one legged player will try to touch other players by hopping.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The player who will be touched will go out of the circle and is out of play.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The legs could be changed during play.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Through this game the skills of warming up, maintaining balance, saving him s by faking the partners could be achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Besides, the legs become strong, powerful and speedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Lots of pleasure is achieved through this game.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">For this game, a big circle is to be made in the field with lime.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">After that, every body will stand beside the circle keeping a space between each other facing one side.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The player who has been caught will go out of play and sit down.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In this way chasing the front player the game will continue.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Through this game the students will achieve the capacity to run fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The lungs and the heart will be more effective.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The leg muscles will be strong, the body will be supple and the mind will become cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">A particular area is to be earmarked and inside it players will remain in a scattered position.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">There will be a leader among the players.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">With the blowing of the whistle the leader will try to touch the other players.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Nobody can go out of the area.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The player who is touched will join or tag the leader.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The player who goes out of boundary will also be tagged.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The player who will be tagged last will be the winner.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">In this game much pleasure is gained.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">For this game players will be divided into two equal groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In this way the game will continue for a specific time.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">When the time elapses the sides will by turn change places and continue the game as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The players will be divided into three groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Each group will stand at the starting line in a file.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">At a distance of 3 0/40 yards a ball or a stick will be kept for each group.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The third player will run for the ball and give it to the fourth player.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The fourth player will place the ball in the end line and comeback to his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">In this procedure the game will go on.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Procedure: The groups will stand half behind the A line and other half behind the B line.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">After this they will run back to their own line and hand over the flag to the next player.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He will repeat this.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The game will go on in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The group who could first finish will be the winner.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Procedure: Four groups will be for with equal member of players.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">As shown in the picture each group will stand in their own file.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">In this way the group who will move round one first will be the winner.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">In the different regions of Bangladesh various types of recreational games are organized.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Amongst them Daria banda, Bou Chee, Kho Kho, Kabadi are note worthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">This game is played in different regions of Bangladesh in local rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">For playing the game in uniform rules some rules are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Two groups play the game: defender and attacker.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Each group consists of 8 to 10 players.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">With signal the game will start.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">If a defender touches an attacker during changing of court than he will be out.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">In the specific time the group who can score maximum number of lona will win.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">It is forbidden to play by using (rubbing on the body) oil or oily substance on the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">For conducting the game one umpire and one scorer will be needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The time keeper will keep the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">With the blowing of the whistle of the umpier the game will start.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">After the specific time with blowing of umpire's whistle the game will be over.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The decision of the umpire will be treated as final.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Before the start of the game both the groups will warm up their bodies by running and exercises.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">To deceive the defending player, intelligence, technique and swiftness are to be adopted.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The teacher and the students together will workout the technique (skills) and practise it.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Bou Chee is the regional game of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Then the relations of the bou tried to drive away the captivator and bring back the bou home.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Basing on this within some rules and regulations Bou Chee has become a corn petition game.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">This game is now included in the inter-school competition.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">No equipment is needed to play this game.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">For girls the court of this game is 40 yards in length and 30 yards in width.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The boy's court is of same size.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">But if needed the length and width could be increased up to 50/60 yds.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">and 30/40 yds.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The room of the Bou will be 4 4 and the players house is 8 8 .</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The distance of the two houses will be 18 yds.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The lines of the courts will be 2 inches wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The winner of the toss will have the choice of becoh defender or chaser.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Results: During the duration of the game the group whoever scores the highest point will be declared as winner.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It the game is a tie then for each out and dead player one point is to be added.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The chaser party will select someone from their party as Bou.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The Bou - 22011 sit in her own home.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Bou will wear a 4 width red ribbon on her or his waist.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The rest six chasers will stay in their house.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The defender party will take suitable position in the court as the please.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">With the blowing of the whistle of the umpire the game starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Umpire will announce Dan.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The chaser will get 9 Dans.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The Bou may try to go to her house any time within these 9 Dans.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The Chaser who will be stranded in the Bou's house can return home by avoiding the defenders.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">In this situation changing of side or runs will take place.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The defenders will become chasers and the chasers will become defenders.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">In this way the game will go on till scheduled time is over.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">This Dan will be counted.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">If the goes out of the field during the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">If he gives broken chee-e-e and after the declaration of the umpire the defending player touches him.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">According to the rule if a chaser touches him.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">If he goes out of the field during the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">While keeping the whole body inside the house the chaser touches the defender.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">For conducting the game one referee, two umpires, one scorer, one time keeper and four linesmen are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The group who has speed, swiftness, patience, tolerance and holder of good breath wins the game easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Therefore basing on the qualities one should select the players and take care of their practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Related exercises for warming up the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Short distance run.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Running from one part of the field to another part with a chee-e and coming back.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Koh Koh is a rural and regional game.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The game is widely practised in India particularly in Maharashtra.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">This game has similarity with Daria Banda or Attia Pattia.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">But there are some dissimilarities in rules and skills.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The players and the spectators get lots of pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Each group will consists of 9 players.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Each competition will have two innings of 28 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The chaser and runner will get 7 (seven) minutes time for each turn.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">No part of the body of the main chaser can touch or cross the centre lane.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The main chaser will give Kho to the seated chaser.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Before giving the Kho the seated chaser cannot rise from his square.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">After the declaration of foul if the main chaser touches any run ner he will not be out.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">After getting Kho he who will be the main chaser, will run facing that way that he passes cross line.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The main chaser when runs facing a direction he cannot change this way or turns about.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">But the main chaser cannot go in the opposite of the control line without coming round the post.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Being obstructed by a chaser if any runner becomes out then he will not be treated as out.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">If he touches then he will be given a warning.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">But if he does it again he will be treated as out.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">If both the legs of any runner go out of the boundary he will be out.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">According to the rule if the main chaser touches any runner with his hand the runner will be out.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">For the out of each runner the chaser party will get one point.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">If before the scheduled time all runners are out then the chaser party will get a lona.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Till the time of turn is completed the game will continue according to rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">When the turn is going on the runners cannot change their serial numbers of the list.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Gollachut is a country game and is very popular with the rural children.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">It does not require any equipment.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The game can be organised in any open space.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It may even be played in the courtyard of a house.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The children as well as the youths take part in the game with equal interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The game is played between t teams.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">This may be the reason of being called gollachut.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This game brings forth speed, stamina, physical strength to the players.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The players as well as the spectators enjoy this game very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The players act the opportunity to learn new attacking and defensive techniques.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">a. Playing field: The measurement of the field is generally 54.86 metres 36.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The field may be bigger or smaller than this measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The field will be leveled so that the players can run without any difficulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The players will have uniforms with different colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">If gollachut is played during school hours, the game may be played for about 30 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Toss: The referee makes a toss to decide which team will play as Golla Team or Goliachut Team.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The Golla Team will hold each others hand by circling the Golla spot.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">They will make a chain with their hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">While Gollachut team will field their players scattered.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">e. Game conducting officials: The officials of conducting the Gollachut game are-referee, umpire, scorer arid timekeeper.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Golla player: A very fast player will be selection act as a Golla player.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">He will be placed in the Golla spot.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">All other players will make a chain by holding their hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The Golla player is required to be a very good player.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Because he is to give lona for his team.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The member of the Golla Team will reach the other side of the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">hut he will not be touched or caught by the fielding side i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">In doing so, he is to be very fast in running.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The last player's jumping spot will be the next Golla spot.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The Golla players will make a chain from this new spot they achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">They will play as Gollachut team..</sent>
				<sent id ="154">But the players who are holding the chain with Golla player will not be out.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">If he can riot reach safely his Golla team will be out, j.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">A player will be declared out if he goes out of the boundary of the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">k. he players are required to be warmed up properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">They will do all the free hand exercises during warm-up session.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">They will take some short and fast runs.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">In pairs, they will pull each others hand, run in a zigzag way.They will jump and kick in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The fast and intelligent player will be selected as Golla player.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He is to be able to run in a zigzag way.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">He should learn how to dodge an opponent while reaching the other end of the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The Golla team members are required to be clever.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">They will break chain and will try to allure the opponent to bring closer to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Them finding an opportunity they will try to reach the other end.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Members of the Golla team should show that they arc going to be pacca by reaching the other end.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">They will try to run as fast as they can without being touched by the opponent.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">They are to adopt the tactics of being successful in reaching the other end.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">They are to follow the technique that a member of Golla team may be caught.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">A very fast player is to be selected so that he can chase any opponent very successfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">They are to weaken the opponent by catching the maximum member of Golla team players.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">It is an excellent recreational activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">It does not require any equipment.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The children enjoy this game very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">To do good in this game; one is required to be physically fit and mentally intelligent.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Every member of the team is to be very fast in running.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">a. Playing field: Big gymnasium or any open space.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">According to the natire of the game it does not require any fixed area.. b.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Equipment: No equipment is necessary for this indigenous game.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Players: The number of players is not fixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The number should be a little bit larger than the normal one!</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Method of the game: The players will be fielded scatteredly.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">He will wear certain distinctive mark so that he can be identified easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">He will run and try-to touch a moving player inside the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">If he can touch any one, he will hand over the distinctive mark to the touched player.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">That player will now be the chaser.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">In this way, the game will continue.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">This game can be said as Li Li play.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Besides the touch Game there are various other indigenous games which give recreation to the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The children enjoy these games and participate in them spontaneously.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The games like Good morning sir, What is the time, Mr. wolf?</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Find out the leader Crow and crane, Head and tail, Bull in the ring etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">In the present world football is a popular international game.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Everywhere in our country the players and spectators take part in this game with much enthusiasm and zeal.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Through football game the qualities of feeling of cooperation, self confidence, swiftness, perseverance etc. are developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Leadership, obedience and respect for law build one as an ideal citizen and social being.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Equipment: An inflated ball, 6 feet high goal post and 8 feet long goal bar and goal net.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The international measurement for goal posts is 8 feet high and the goal bar is 8 yrds.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">1-lere goal bar is 8 feet long and 6 feet high goal post for the juniors.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Number of players: Each team will have ii or 9 players and 3 (three) extra players for replacement.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Director: One referee, two deputy referees or linesmen.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Toss: From the toss the winner will decide according to his wish whether he will take Kick off or side.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Generally after winning a toss Kick off is taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">According to the international rule 45 minutes + 5 minutes rest + 45 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Total 95 minutes is the dura tion of the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Fouls: generally fouls are of nine kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">But in penalty area the goal keeper can hold the ball by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Throw in: The ball when crosses the side line is brought into play by a throw in.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">When the ball last touched by a party goes out the opposite party will get the throw in.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Kick : By kicking with leg the ball is passed to other is called a kick.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">There are many kinds of kicks.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The description of a few preliminary kicks is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The ball should be hit just after it touches the ground and start coming up.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">This is called the half volley kick.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">With different skills the bail is brought to own control is called trapping.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The skill of controlling the ball from toe to head is to be learned with patience and tolerance.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Head trapping: To control the ball with the help of the head is called head trapping.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Goal keeping: Goal keeper plays a vital role in winning and losing a game.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The goal keeper must keep keen eyes on the ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">A football player in whatever position he plays should take care of his body and practise the game regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">It is not known correctly how, when and where the game of soft ball was started.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">In the modem history of America George W. Han Cock in the year 1887 introduced the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">After the Second World War the game was widely spread in America.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">This game can be played in a small field and does not require a lot of equipment.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Besides, it costs less to arrange this game.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">I One wooden round bat.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">A leather covered soft ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">A diamond shaped field with long and wide open spaced area.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Field: A diamond shaped field whose each arm will be 18.24 metres (60).</sent>
				<sent id ="231">For fielding a long and wide open space.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The long home base will be of almost 60.96 metres (200 feet).</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Each team will consists of nine players who will stand in different places of the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">It is shown in the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">In one game five innings are played.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">If three players of the batting team is out one innings is over.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Then fielders will come to bat.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">If the game is a draw both the teams will play extra three innings.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Batter will stand in the right or left home of the home base.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">From pitchers plate, the pitcher will throw ball to the batter.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The pitcher will throw the l in between the knee and the shoulder level just over the home base.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">If there is a violation of this the ball will be a No ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">If there are four no balls then the batter will get a free base.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">In case of a right handed batter his left foot and eyes will be on pitcher.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The bat will be given a swing to hit a ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">A slight touch of the ball with the bat (Batting hit).</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Ball throwing (pitching and throwing): After noticing the weakness of the batter one should throw the ball accurately.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Ball should be pitched for several times to the batter.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Pitch the ball in different styles.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Throwing ball in this style is called underhand throwing.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">This style of throwing is called overhand throwing.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">personal signal of own group choose the base or fielding.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">By understanding the nature of the hatter the catcher will stay near or far.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Teni koit is a foreign game.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">This game is played in single or in double.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">a) The start of the game: The game will start with toss.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The winner of the toss will choose the side or service and starts the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">b) The game is of 15 points.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">c) Out of three games whoever wins maximum games will be the winner.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">On the start of second and third game court should be changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Until the ring is dropped on the court or it goes out of the court the play will continue.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">f) Any line of the court can be touched but if fully crossed it will be considered as a foul.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">g) Where the ring first touched the ground will he considered as its landing spot.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">h) In a singles game the court will be used length single portion.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">a) Swiftly throwing the ring over the net with a downward trend.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">b) Always to keep an eye on the ring.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Practise the body balance to the right, the forward, backward step and stooping position.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Smashing: For fast offensive playing a short run with a jump is needed to smash.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">This time the ring should he thrown in speed with a downward trend.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">In single and double game physical will-being, mental preparation and self confidence are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">In doubles game in addition to these qualities understanding with the partner and consciousness about both's responsibility are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">The excitement should be controlled to win the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">In our country particularly during winter season in the village or town every where children play this game.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">In the past this game was played in Poona in India.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">In latter period the English introduced this game to their country.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">In the past the game was called the Poona game.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The Court: The playing field will be right angle rectangle.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The length is 44 feet and width 22 or 20 feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">In both ends long service line from the end lines will be 2.5 feet inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">After taking 13 feet from the end lines two parallel straight lines to be drawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">The two lines are .called</sent>
				<sent id ="282">the short service line.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">The court's longest lines are called the side line.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">From the middle of these two lines two posts are posted at a distance of .5 (feet) away.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">The net is tied with these posts.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The net: The net will be made of thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The space of the squares of the net will be 3/4 square inch each.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The net will be 22 (feet) long and 18 (inches) in width.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">At the point of the posts the net will be 5 -l in height and in the middle 5 (feet).</sent>
				<sent id ="290">The height of the posts will be 5 -1 from the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Shuttlecock: Shuttlecocks are made of feather.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Now a days for practice less expensive plastic made shuttlecocks are available.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">The players: Each team consists of one (Single) or two (Double) players play between two teams.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Toss: Who will get side or service is decided by a toss.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Point: for man's single or double, the game point is For women the game point is 11.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Rules of the doubles game: For the first service the right side player will serve diagonally in the opponent's court.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">He only can receive the service to whom it is served.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">No player can serve twice in a single game.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">The winner of the first game will serve at the beginning of the second game.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">After each point scored the players will change their service or the receiving court.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">a) If the server breaks a rule then their running service will be cancelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">If the opponents make same mistake the server will score a point.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">b) Service cannot be taken unless the opponent is ready.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">c) The server and the receiver both will be motionless and start the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">During this time no line of the court can be touched.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">d) If during service the shuttlecock touches the net or line the service will be cancelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">But if it falls alter touching the recket then the service will be cancelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">a) If the bottom of the shuttlecock is not hit correctly.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">b) If the racket remains over the waist during service.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">c) If the shuttlecock is dropped in the wrong court.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">d) During a ninning game touching the net with cloth or the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">e) If the same player hits the shuttle consecutively.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">f) If the player cheats while serving.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Umpires: The game will be conducted by an experienced umpire.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">If he feels necessary he can take help of a referee.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">b) Receiving service: While receiving the service a keen eye should be kept on the shuffle.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">We are indifferent in maintaining the correct body posture.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Due to this indifference the body is affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Never one should sit or walk ending forward, bending sideward and bending the neck, the back and the waist.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Kabaddi is a very popular game with the rural people of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Previously it was called Ha-du-du, Che-dug-dug.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Chu kit-kit etc. and was played under various rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Now the game has been named as kabaddi to bring uniformity of names, rules, and regulations.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The Government has formed Bangladesh Kabaddi.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Federation with a view to bringing all round development of this game.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">a. Kabbadi court: It is a leveled and rectangular ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">The ground is made of earth, manure and sawdust.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Midline-The kabaddi court is divided into two halves by a line called mid line.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Baulk line-In each court a line will be drown 3 metres away from and parallel to the midline.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">This line is called the baulk line.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Lobby-In each side along the length of the court, there will be a strip called lobby.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">It will measure 11 metres in length and 1 metre in breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">The measurement of this block is 6m 1m.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Every line drown for making a court will be 5 cm. in breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Players- 12 players will make a team.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">7 players will take part in the game and 5 players will be kept as substitute.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Playing time- The playing time is divided into two halves.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Each half will be of 20 minutes duration.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">In between these two halves, there will be a recess of 5 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">For women, junior boys and girls, the timing will be (15 { 5 15) minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Toss- The referee will take the toss before the captains of both teams.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Start of the game- The side that wins the toss, have the choice of the court or the raid.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Raid- On signal from the umpire, a player will raid the opponent court with a cant called kabaddi-kabaddi-kabaddi.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">During the raid, he will not break this cant.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">The raid will be done by the players of both teams alternately.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">The out player will sit in the sitting block.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">And if the raider is caught, he will be out and the opponent team, will scope a point.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">If the raider is caught in the opponent's court, the opponent team will score a point.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">During raid, if any player touches the line, he will be out and the opponent team will score a point.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Lona- The play will be continued in this way one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">When all the players of a team will be out, the winning side will score two additional points.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">This is called lona.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">A raider should not be stifled by shutting his mouth or by any other way.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Violent tackling will not be allowed.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">The raider will not be held with the help of scissors operated by legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">A raider -shall not take more than 5 minuets to start his raid.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">The raid in the opponent's court can be taken either from the right or the left side.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">The raider will try to cross the baulk line first and then he will attack the opponent.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">During raid, the raider will not show his back to the opponent: The raider will not close both feet together.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">He may be caught by the opponent easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">The opponent team will try to block the raider so that he can not cross the baulkline.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The opponent players may make chain to block the raider and keep him in their court.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">The leg of the raider can be caught and raised high quickly so that he loses his strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">As soon as the raid is over, the raider can be pursued quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Kabaddi is a team game.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">In order to gain experience, regular practice is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">One student will be made blind by teethe a piece of cloth on his eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Others will make a suitable circle and stand round it.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Now the blind player will remain standing silently in his place or move around of his own spot 34 times.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">In the mean time others will change their places in the circle.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">The blind now slowly moves around and touches others with his stick and ask him.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">After winning the toss the leader will shut the eyes of one of the opponents with his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">The group leader will take away his hand from the eyes of the player.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">The player now will guess and try to recognize the player who pinched his forehead within 5-7 seconds.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">If successful he will get one point.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">In this way all players of the team will have a chance of becoming blind and pincher.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">In the stipulated time the party whose sore is highest will be declared winner.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Like other countries of the world this game is widely prevalent in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Equipment: One handkerchief.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">All will sit in a circle facing the centre of the circle.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">One player will act as a thief.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">He will take a handkerchief and pretend to keep the handkerchief behind everybody's hack.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Whoever's back the handkerchief has been kept he will try to find it.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">When he finds it, immediately he will chase the thief.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">The thief of the handcarchief will sit in the vacant place of the chaser.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">And in this way the game will go on.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">If there is a hunge member of players the group can e divide into small groups and continue the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Outside the school premises different kinds of class formations are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">To take part in sports and games and formal marching disciplinary class formation is indispensable.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">When one stands behind one and behind him stands another, this formation is called a file.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Drill means repetition of some regular activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Through the repetition of some regular activities students can learn discipline, leadership and obedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Generally for physical exercise and conducting of sports and games the teacher or leader gives command informally.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">But in military drill formal command is given.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">According to the military rule each group will stand in three files before the commander.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The commander will stand at a distance of 10/15 steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">When the command is given, the commander will come to attention position.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">To finish or to start the drill whatever signal is given is called command.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Before giving order the commander has to perform certain responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Address: Before giving any command the commander should address a caution or get ready sound to the group.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">For example class/squad etc. Caution address - parade/class.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The word squad is to be pronounced.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">After that what work will have to be done is to be announced.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">There will be a short pause.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Effective order should be given - for example: Stand at-ease.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">A rough sketch is given below so that the drill activity becomes easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">This will help all.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Turning in this way or changing sides to the left (the opposite procedure of turning right) also can be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">The daily assembly is included in the routine of all sorts of educational institutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">The physical education teacher or any other teacher selected by the Headmaster will conduct the assembly.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">It is compulsory for all the teachers of the institution to be present in the assembly.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">The teachers will stand face to face with the students housewise.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">The work of the daily assembly will be the following.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">To recite some portion from the holly books.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Hoisting of the national flag and saluting it.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">When the assembly is over the students in a file will return to their class rooms in a disciplined way.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">I am taking oath that, I will keep myself engaged in the service of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">I shall be obedient to my country.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">I shall remain ever endeavoring for the solidarity and unity of my country.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">O Allah give me strength so that I can serve Bangladesh and build Bangladesh a strong state.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">At the beginning of each exercise everybody will stand straight and with the signal start the exercises.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">With the second signal they will raise their right and left feet and start jumping.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">With the third signal they will stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">B) Exercises for the hand and the shoulders: The exercise is called Jumping Jack.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">This exercise will go on rhythmically.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">With the second signal everybody will come to a stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">With the third signal everybody will spread both hands at their sides and stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">First exercise: On the first signal stand erect with hands on the hips.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">With the third signal everybody will bring their legs together and stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Second exercise: On the first signal all will stand as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">On the second signal by turn both feet wide, one foot front and other back and jump.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">First exercise: At the first signal every body will stand straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">With the 3rd signal all will stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Second exercise: On the first signal everybody will stand straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">On the second signal everybody in turn will clap under the knees and over the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">On the third signal everybody will bring their feet together and stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Through a salutation the Combined drill (Exercises) will be over.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">It will look better if the salutation is performed just after the end of the activities of the third signal.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
