<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-agri-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.866</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">219</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2470</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">884</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t13">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Banana is a popular fruit in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">It occupies 42% of the total output of fruits in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">It grows almost everywhere in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">It contains almost all kinds of ingredients found in other foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">So banana is called a complete food.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">A banana plant fruits in a year's time after plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Every part of a plant is of use.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Thirty-two kinds of bananas are cultivated in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">However, the widely known varieties are amritasagar, sabri, champa or chini champa, jahaji, mehersagar, kobri, ganasundari, jalkathali, katchkala, beechikala, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Preparation of land and plantation: Select land which is high and enjoys sunshine round the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The soil should be silty loam.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The land must let water out.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Banana can be planted in all kinds of soil if they have sufficient sap.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Irrigation facility must be there for banana plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Mid August to mid October (Bhadra-Ashwin) is the best time for planting banana.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Dig pits, 45 cm depth and 45cm in circumference each, at a distance approved for the selected variety.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Apply the remaining half of cowdung, oilcake and 120 gm TSP to the pits.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">You have to put them in a circular drain around the tree, 30 cm away from its base.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Apply the remaining one fourth of urea at the time of flowering.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Cultural practices: Banana plantation requires the following cultural practices:</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Spade the soil lightly after planting and check the growth of weed.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Cut down the growing stems to the level of the ground until the spathe appears.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Before the arrival of the rainy season, pick up earth from between the rows and place it on the base of the trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">While doing so, make drains between the rows so that rainwater can flow down.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">During drought, irrigate the orchard once a month.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Cover the bunches of banana as they appear with blue polythene bags.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">They will protect the bananas from hot wind, dust and insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Moreover, they will improve the colour of the bananas.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Cut down the dried and dead leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Cut the spathe off after bananas have come out of the cone.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">You may keep one or two healthy sword suckers after the appearance of the spathe.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Harvesting bananas: You may reap the bananas when they change from green to light green after 3 - 4 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Papaya is available round the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">We can eat papaya as a fruit when it is ripe.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">We can eat it as a vegetable when it is green.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Vitamin A lies in sufficient quantities in ripe papayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Papaya is a short-term nutritious fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">A substance for digestion called papayene is there in a green papaya in large quantities.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Species: Papaya is grown from seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Papaya plants bear flowers of mixed genders: monosex, bisex and polysex.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">It is difficult to select the right species.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">A variety called Shahi Papaya is available in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">It is mono sexual.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">It is an approved HYV.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Preparation of land and plantation: You may cultivate papaya in different kinds of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">What you have to consider is that the land must have drainage facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">If you can apply sufficient fertilizer, papaya grows well in loose soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">You need to till and level the soil well.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Dig pits, triangular in shape with sides 45cm in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The lines will be 2 m apart, and the plants will stand 2 m away from one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Keep the pits in this state for 10 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">After 10 days, plant three saplings in each pit, 20 cm apart from one another, in a triangular position.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Get the seeds from a good, sweet papaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Remove the white film covering them.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Sow them fresh on a seedbed or on the soil in polythene bags.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Irrigate after sowing if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Seeds will grow in 15-20 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">When the seedlings are one month old, extract them from the bed and plant them in the pits.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Application of fertilizer and cultural practices: The uninterrupted growth of papaya plants demands frequent application of fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">To maintain their health and growth, application of fertilizer is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The first installment of fertilizer is to be applied after about two months of planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Apply the second installment after 45 days of the first installment.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Likewise, the remaining installments will follow the 45 days time lag.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">You need to weed the orchard both before and after the application of fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">If necessary, you have to irrigate it.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Keep one male plant for every twenty female ones, and uproot the other male plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">You may treat the female ones with more fertilizer and care than the male ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Harvesting: Papaya fruits in four to five months after planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The fruits begin to ripen in nine to ten months.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Pluck them as they begin to wear a light colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Papaya ripens very fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">It rots very fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Wrap every papaya with straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Put them in rows in a bamboo basket to send them to the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">You can have 60-100 papayas from a plant on average.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Guava is a popular fruit in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">It is the apple of the tropics.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Vitamin C abounds in guava.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">You may have a guava any day in the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Preparation of land and planting: A guava tree stands tough.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It finds almost all kinds of soil agreeable for its growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">But it cannot survive if water stagnates on its base.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">High land, rich in bio mass with good drainage facilities, is ideal for guava cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">First, plough the land deeply and then level it well.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Dig 60 cm long, 60 cm wide and 45 cm deep pits in rectangular or hexagonal shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">They should be five to six metres away from one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Now fill in the pits with the mixture after 15-20 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Leave them in this state for 7 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Plant a strong and sturdy cutting at the middle of the pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Raise the soil of the base to a height of 10 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">This time post a stick near the sapling and tie it with the sapling.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">At last, saturate the soil on the base with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Applying fertilizer and cultural practices: Guava trees may bear ftuits for years.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">You have to provide them with fertilizer every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The table below shows the doses of fertilizer required for guava cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Notice the canopy of the trees at noon.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Plough or spade the area under the canopy, 0.5 - 1.5 m away from the trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The space to be left undisturbed around the trees depends on their age.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Sprinkle fertilizer on the spaded soil and mix them both well.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">If required, you have to irrigate the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Prune the dead and the diseased branches and twigs after harvesting every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Harvesting: Harvest it as it attains maturity.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">A fruiting tree gives 500 - 1000 guavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Pineapple is a good source of vitamins A, B and C. It contains calcium, iron and phosphorus.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It is short-term fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The duration from planting to harvestig is 18-24 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">It is one of the major fruits in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Variety: Giant kew, Honey queen and Ghorashal are being commercially cultivated in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Preparation of land and planting: Sandy soil and sandy loam are good for pineapple cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">However, it can be cultivated all over Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Crown suckers, stems and bottom suckers are planted for pineapple cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">You have to collect these saplings during harvesting and spread them on the ground to dry their bottom ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Bottom suckers and side suckers are the best of all saplings.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Generally, you have to plough the land deeply and level it well after the rainy season for pineapple cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The next step: make beds, each 1m wide, with a space of 1m among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Mix 200 gm cowdung or compost with 6 gm TSP and soil for every sapling and apply it at the time of preparing the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Mid September to mid November [Ashwin - Kartik] is the best time for pineapple plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">However, it may be continued until mid March [Falgun].</sent>
				<sent id ="119">You may plant pineapple in one line, two lines or three line methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">It is better to follow the two line method.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">You may give the saplings rectangular or triangular configurations.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The plants may stand 40cm apart and the lines may lie 50 cm from one another on a metre wide bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Cultural practices: You will have to weed the farm regularly and irrigate it when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">When the saplings are five months old, they require fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Give it as top dressing.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Fix 18gm urea and 18 gm MP for each plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Divide the whole amount into five equal portions.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Apply a portion every two months.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">You will have to weed the base of the plants with a hand hoe before you apply fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">You will have to irrigate too.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">It is better to apply fertilizer after irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Neither the sun nor the shade all day long is good for pineapple.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Partial shade is comfortable for pineapple.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">You may grow pigeon pea or some kind of trees for light shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Harvesting: Honey queen is harvested from May to June while Giant kew is harvested from July to September.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">It is possible to grow pineapple round the year applying hormone technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Harvesting pineapple either green or too ripe is not advisable.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">You better reap your pineapples when they are half ripe.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">You may easily grow 40 - 50 tons of pineapple on a hector of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">You may cultivate lemon in any place in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Lemon contains much vitamin C. It is soluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">It does not stay in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The decay of our body cannot be replenished without vitamin C.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Moreover, wounds do not heal quickly without vitamin C. We need to eat lemon each time we eat a meal everyday to keep fit.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Here lies the importance of lemon cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Variety: Lemons are of various species.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Kagaji lebu, Elachi lebu or BARI lebu-l, BARI lebu-2, BARI lebu-3 and Rangpur lebu are some of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Besides, some local species like Bijheen and Jamilebu are also worth mentioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Reproduction: Lemon reproduces in two ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">You have to grow saplings from seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">But seeds of lemon cannot be easily preserved.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">You have to get seeds out of lemons and sow them on a seedbed immediately .</sent>
				<sent id ="153">You can buy saplings of lemon almost in all thana level towns and village markets now-a-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Preparation of land and planting: Although lemon is a tropical crop, it can be cultivated in all kinds of climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">It grows in all kinds of soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The land needs to be ploughed deeply and have drainage facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">One may cultivate lemon in homesteads or on school premises.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">One can grow lemon in tubs or drums in case there is no space.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">You have to dig a pit, 60cm deep and 60cm wide in mid April - mid June [Baishakh - Jaistha].</sent>
				<sent id ="160">A line will lie 2- 3 m away from the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">A sapling will stand at a similar distance from its fellow being.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Dig the pits.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Fill them with earth mixed with fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">keep them in this state for 8-10 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Now is the time to plant the saplings.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">After this you have to irrigate the soil of the pits.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The pits become fit to receive plants after 8-10 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">You may plant saplings in tubs or drums after filling them with a mixture of soil and fertilizer in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Cultural practices: Regular irrigation and weeding are necessary after plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Spade the ground under the canopy of every tree; mix a half of the things mentioned above with the loosened soil before the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Repeat the procedure after the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Roots of lemon do not go very deep into the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">A damp situation or drought does not agree with the upkeep of a lemon tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">You are required to have irrigation and drainage facilities in order to respond to these situations.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The sick, dry and unnecessary twigs and branches of lemon trees need to be lopped off.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The time of pruning is right after harvesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Moreover, if a stem appears at the base of the tree, it should also be cut down.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Harvesting: Lemon flowers turn to fruits almost in nine months.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Lemon trees usually bear fruits round the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">They are harvested when they are full with kernel.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">On average output from a tree is about 500 - 600 pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Collect the materials required.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Prepare a pit 60 cm deep and 60cm wide in mid April - mid June [Baishakh - Jaistha].</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Right at the outset of the preparation of the pit take up a rope or thread 60cm long.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Post a bamboo stick at the point where you want to plant the sapling.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Now fold the rope or thread into two.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Enter a stick right in the loop formed at the bend.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Hold the stick at the centre and draw a circle by turning the other end of the folded rope around.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Dig a 30cm deep pit along the line of the circle with a spade or crowbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Keep the soil on one side.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Now, again dig it 30cm deep and put the soil on the other side.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Fill in the pit with the mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Watch that the pit is filled in 15-20 cm higher than the ground level.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Wet the pit with a pail of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Keep it in this state for seven days.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Tlie soil on the top of the pit will attain the right texture in seven days.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">If it does not attain this quality, wait for a day or two.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Remove the soil from the middle of the surface of the pit with a hand hoe and plant the sapling there.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Press the soil around well.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Take care that the sapling stands at the depth of the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Post a bamboo stick or the branch of a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Tie the sapling to it well.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Put up a fence around the sapling.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Look in on the plant twice a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Irrigate once a week if it does not ram.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">If the soil gets hard after irrigation, loosen it with a hand hoe.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Uproot the weeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Break down or prune the old, dead branches if there are any.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Prune the tender stems at the base of the tree after six months.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Irrigate if required when the tree flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Write down the activities in sequence in your practical copy.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Mix earth, fertilizer and ash together well.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Take a tub or pot with a hole on the bottom.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Put some pieces of brick on the bottom and cover them with dried leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Fill in the tub or pot with the soil mixed with fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Now wet the soil of the tub.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Tie the sapling well to a stick posted near it.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Follow the cultural practices meant for plantation on land like irrigating, weeding and other relevant jobs.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Now write down the activities in order in your practical copy.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
