<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-agri-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.84</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">191</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2503</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">876</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t12">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Fruit plantation is different from the cultivation of field crops like rice, jute, wheat, mustard seeds and vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Field crops and vegetables are mainly seasonal; their farming cycle ends in a few months.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">But fruit trees live for years.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Most fruit trees begin to fruit 5-6 years after plantation and continue to do so as long as they live.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Banana, pineapple and papaya fruit roughly in ten months.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">It shows how fruit farming differs from field crop farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Saplings are grown from the seeds of papaya, jackfruit, berry, hog plum, etc. and then they are planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">On the other hand, seeds can be sowed straightaway.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">A. Preparing the bed on the ground: Seeds are usually sown on the bed to grow saplings.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">How to select land for bed and how to prepare the bed are described below:</sent>
				<sent id ="11">A seedbed should be on a piece of highland that is wide open to air and to the sun most of the day.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">A patch of land one metre wide and three meters long or of convenient length should be selected.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">A drain, 30 cm wide and 15 cm deep, should be dug around the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The soil of the bed should be sand or loam.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">If this kind of soil is not available, sandy loam can be brought from elsewhere and spread 20-25 cm thick on the selected place.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">There may be worms or germs in the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Pour hot water or burn rubbish on the bed to get rid of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">After making the bed free from worms and germs, the soil should be spaded soft and loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">It is possible to make a seedbed in a pot too.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The method is described below: An earthen tub or any kind of pot is needed for making a seedbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The soil for the pot should be 3:1 sandy loam and decomposed cow dung or compost.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">It should be made germ-free like a ground seedbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The sandy loam and the decomposed cowdung should be mixed and put in the pot or the tub.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The seeds of papaya should be sown 1 cm deep and 5-7cm apart from one another in mid-April to mid-June (Baishakh - Jaistha).</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The seeds of papaya grow in 2-3 weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The seeds of guava do not grow easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">So they should be dipped in water for 24 hours and then sown in lines 10 cm apart, 1.5 cm deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The seeds of lemon should be taken out of ripe fruits and planted 10 cm apart at the same depth in lines right away.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The bed should be irrigated regularly, but care should be taken so that water does not stand on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">A shed of mat or of similar material should be put up to protect the bed from rain and from the heat of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The soil of the bed should be spaded loose whenever necessary and weeds should be root out by weeders or hand hoe.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The selection of land: In our country, sufficiently high land with loam suitable for horticulture is not available.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">We usually cultivate fruits around our homesteads or on fallow land.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Loam or sandy loam is very good for fruit cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">If the land has no loam, it may be dug and refilled with loam from elsewhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The selection of land for horticulture depends on the following factors:</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The land is not good for fruit cultivation if it has stones or gravels 30-40 cm beneath the surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Land with bad drainage is not good for fruit farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The top soil should be deep enough for fruit trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Most of the fruit trees can not tolerate the stagnant water at the base; so land well above flood level is good for fruit farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Half of the top soil and half of the bottom soil should be kept aside separately at the time of digging the pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The pit and the soil need to be dried in the sun at least for 7-10 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">It trees the pit and the soil from germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Fertile soil brought from elsewhere should be used to fill in the pit if its soil is not fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The soil around the base of the tree should be 10-12 cm higher than the level of the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It will not allow water to stand at the base of the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">We make the design on the basis of the method of plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">First, we prepare the land quite well.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Next, we plant the saplings at a certain distance in a square design.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">It means every line will be at an equal distance from the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Similarly, every sapling will stand at an equal distance from the other on a line.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">This method is good for mango, jackfruit, litchi, etc. Prepare the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Decide on the space among the lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Draw the lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Look at the recommended space among the saplings.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Draw lines for saplings accordingly and thus divide the land into small rectangles.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Plant a sapling at every corner.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Plantation of papaya, banana, pineapple, etc. usually follows this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Prepare the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Draw lines at fixed spaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Plant the saplings on two lines in a triangular shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">You can plant an extra sapling on every third line in this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">This method allows more space among lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Prepare the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Draw lines at fixed spaces into hexagonal shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Plant six saplings at six corners of each hexagon and one in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">It is expensive to start but the most profitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">You can plant more saplings if you follow this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">It is basically a square method.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">You may plant mango, jackfruit, lichi, etc. in this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">It accommodates a sapling of a big short- lived fruit tree in the middle of each square.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">As the main trees thrive, the tree in the middle loses its strength to survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">However, it gives fruits quite for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">This method suits the orchards on hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">You make contours between spaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Plant the saplings on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The contours do not let the water out.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">As a result, soil erosion is little and yield is satisfactory.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Spacing may differ depending on the condition of the land as well the species of the saplings.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It is usually good to plant saplings in mid April-mid June (Baishakh -Jaistha) before the start of the rains.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">You can plant at the end of the rainy season or even in mid-February - mid-March (Falgun - Chaitra), if you can irrigate.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">However, it is not wise to plant in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Extracting saplings from the bed and planting them in the pits: It will be easier to extract the saplings if you wet the bed earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Extract the saplings with the soil attached to the roots with a hand hoe.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Plant them in the middle of the pits.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Let the roots find the same breadth and depth they had in the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Extracting from the tub and planting in the pit: Separate the lump of soil stuck fast in the interior wall of the tub.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">How? Enter a blunt knife between the lump and the wall of the tub.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Drive it all around the lump.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Hold the tub upside down and hit on the bottom softly.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The sapling will eventually come out along with the lump of soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Plant it as such in a pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Firm the loose soil on the base of the sapling with your hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Put up a hard stick 15 cm from the sapling.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Intercultural operations: Look in on the saplings regularly from the day they are planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Irrigate them when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">But keep an eye on their base.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Don't let water stand there.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Put down the weeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Cultivate other seasonal fruits in the orchard if possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Provide the saplings with nutrients on a regular basis.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Normally, you have to apply fertilizer before and after the onset of the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">You need to spade the soil on the base of the saplings and further around them sometimes to loosen it.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Take care that you don't spade many roots to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The table below shows progressively increasing annual doses of fertilizer after plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">A table showing annual application of fertilizer to trees bearing fruits:</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Irrigation: Irrigate the saplings after a day or two, if necessary, at the first stage of plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Besides, the rubbish rots into manure.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">During summer, erect a ring of earth around each tree with a slope towards the base at a radius of 50 - 300 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The size and type of the tree determines the radius.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">But raise the base during the rainy season to let the rain water roll down.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Protection from the cattle: To protect the saplings from the cattle is one of the most important jobs of horticulture.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Goats hardly miss a chance to eat up the leaves and bark of the saplings.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">It is necessary to protect the saplings with a fence around them.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Pruning: To cut out the unimportant parts of a tree is called pruning.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">A tree is pruned for controlling its free style growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">It means you prune the tree to let it grow in a way you want.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Besides, you prune a tree because you want some particular branches to grow stronger or you do not want the tree spread too much.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Pruning period: Winter is the time for pruning hog plum, wood apple and star fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The right time for pruning jackfruit, berry, mango, litchi, guava, lemon, etc. is soon after their fruits are harvested.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Modes of pruning: Young trees are lightly pruned while the old ones are done heavily.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Trunk is used as valuable wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">For example: jackfruit and berry.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">To grow their trunks long you need to cut off their stems and branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">A jackfruit tree gives more fruits if you prune the branches that grow at the base and on the main trunk.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">If you smash some leaves off a litchi tree while plucking the fruits, it will grow more leaves to team up with more fiuits.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">If you prune all the branches at the top of a plum tree, it will have fewer chances of diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The newly grown branches bear more fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Root pruning: Some trees may not bear fruits or as much as you expect because they have grown more than enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">If you prune their roots, they will bear more fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">However, it is not wise to prune the roots of palms like coconut, betelnut, date, etc.; they are called Monocotyleadones (ekbeejpatri).</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Dig a drain, 1 - 3 m wide, round the tree, a little away from the base.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Cut some of the roots off as you dig the drain.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This is called root pruning.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">You may prune roots by ploughing or digging a drain or spading.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Thinning flowers and fruits: All the fruits do not grow equally big if too many appear on a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">If you thin out them by plucking off some, they will grow bigger in size and better in quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">If there are too many flowers on the tree, you may nip some of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">If a tender tree flowers, it may grow weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">If you nip its flowers, it does not grow weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Almost all fruits gradually change their colour as they ripen.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">We usually harvest fruits after they have ripened on the trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">If you want to sell them in a market, you should harvest them a little earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">You can pluck the fruits off the trees if they are small in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">You may use a bamboo prong (kota) if the trees are very tall and large.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Marketing of fruits: You may hurt many fruits as you harvest them.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">You need to separate them along with those with spots, the rotten ones and the worm eaten ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Finally, you grade the fruits according to their sizes: small, medium and large.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">This arrangement will fetch you better prices.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">You have to pack fruits in baskets or other containers to transport them for sale.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">People usually spread straw inside bamboo baskets and then pack fruits in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">You can sell fruits to the customers straightaway in cities and towns, and in big market places.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">However, in most cases, fruits are sold through wholesale traders and middlemen.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Fruit traders often buy the fruits of a garden before they are ripe.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">They collect the fruits from the gardens and send them to many places for sale.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Preservation of fruits: Preservation of fruits means protection of fruits from getting rotten.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">If you want to preserve fruits, you need to know why fruits rot.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Select a patch of land, 3m long and 1.25 m wide, beside your house or school.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Watch as such the place does not go under water during floods.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Mark the place with sticks.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Then make a 15 cm thick layer with garbage, water hyacinths, foliage, etc. on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Sprinkle 200 gm urea and 200 gm TSP on the layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Mix mud with cow dung and give a 2 - 5 cm thick coat with it on the layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Build layers as above with garbage; every time put a coat of mud and cowdung; in this way make the heap 1.25 m high.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Put up a shed over the heap.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Give a coat of mud on and around the heap if you cannot put up a shed.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Enter a stick in the middle of the heap and check if it is too wet after a week of its completion.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">If you find it too wet, make some holes on it with a stick so that air can enter.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Keep the holes for 2 - 3 days and then close them.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">If the heap dries up too much, make some holes on it and pour in the urine of cow or water.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">When the heap is about two weeks old, put its garbage upside down.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Again do the same after a month.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">You can use the compost of the heap in two months time if you follow this course.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Practise making compost.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Write down the sequence of your jobs in your practical note book.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">You may prepare compost as a group activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">You may also observe how the students of senior classes do it.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Count up 100 seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Sieve the fine sand and throw away the dirt and grits.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Leave the sand soak in a bucket or any other pot of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Now scoop up the wet sand and spread it into a 6 cm thick layer on an earthen plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Level off the layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Lay the seeds one by one in rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Take care that a seed does not collide with the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Cover the seeds with a 2 cm thick layer of the wet sand.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Keep the pot in a safe place.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Water it once a day as required.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Count the seedlings after 14 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The seedlings with roots, trunk and leaves are the healthy ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The number of healthy seedlings indicates the potential of the seeds to reproduce.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Now write the procedure in order in your practical copy; show it to your class teacher and get it signed by him.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
