<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-artCraft-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.041</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">185</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2292</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">708</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t21">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Embroidery is an important craft.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">To sew any design is a work as drawing a picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Mother sews many things for you, such as: Frocks, Scarf, Bed-sheet, Table-cloth, various clothing's etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Besides these, various kinds of embroidered quilt, pictures can be seen everywhere now a days.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">One of the main folk art is quilt, fans and various pictures done by the village girls.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The girls of cities are sewing these now a days.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Demand of embroidered quilt, embroidered picture etc. has increased very much now a days.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Bangladesh earns a lot of foreign currency by exporting these crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">This art has been introduced by our country to the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Meanwhile you have learnt of few stitches of embroidery in the previous class, which has been repeated here to remind you.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">A few new stitches are given here too.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">We hope, you will be able to design many creative works and will be able to make yourself self reliant.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">7 A small box to keep different tools and materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">There is necessity of doing different stitches for embroidery.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Meanwhile you have been introduced to a few stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Here are some new stitches for you and two stitches have been repeated.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Hope you will be able to recognise them looking at the diagrams (pictures) of the stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The diagrams and the names are given here.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Thread the needle and tie a knot at the end of the thread; emerge the needle through the material from the wrong side.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Insert the needle on the rights This stitch looks like a chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Insert the needle and bring it up at a short distance below.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Draw the thread through the Ioops Don't pull it tight.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Repeat it in the same way by putting the needle in the previous link very near the place where it came out.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Continue the stitches as much as you required.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">You will see that the stitches look like a chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">You can sew different designs on your dresses, mainly on your frocks, kamiz, orna, saree, table-cloth, bed-sheet, handkerchief etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">You can sew creepers and herbs or any other designs on these clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">This stitch can be used for filling up other designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">It can be used in painting to bring a diversity.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">This stitch is done in the same way as the Chain stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The only difference is the loops of the chain stitches pass through a line of designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">But the lazy daisy stitches are done scattered or clustered.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">It can be used to create a floral motif, leaves, creepers and herbs on children's dresses, handkerchiefs or any other dresses etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">This stitch looks like a cross or a multiplication sign.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Generally the net or selula fabrics are used for this stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The surface of the selula-cloth is market in squares.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">This stitch can be done nicely on jute fabric too.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The women of different areas of Rajshahi district and Chaunpai Nawabnonj make embroidered quilts with this stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Looking at the pictures which is given in the book.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Generally this stitch is done on checked fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">sides these, if you use these stitches for paintings or tapestry you.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The star stitch is a double cross stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">You will be able to sew the star stitch, an bring a diversity to the paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The designs can be done with this stitch on tray-cloth, table-cloth and childrens dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The special stitch for this work is called button-hole stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">This stitch is not only used for button-holes, it is used in arts and crafts, which is done with needle and thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">This stitch is done closely one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Now let us begin a button-hole stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Make running stitches around a line or on the edges of the design.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Continue in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">You will find the loops are remaining together one after one in a line.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">You will be able to do designs on your dresses, table-cloths, bed-sheets, kamize- ornas etc. by this stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">This stitch can be used in other works of art.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Take a piece of 25 u 25 centimeter cloth which is suitable for a handkerchief.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Sew the edges by hem stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Then draw a design in a corner of the handkerchief and embroider the design with any stitch you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">A beautiful handkerchief has been done.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Take a piece of cloth according to your study table or center table.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Draw the design on four corners of the cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">In the middle draw the other design.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Then sew button hole stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Select the colours as you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">After finishing the embroidery, sew the borders of the cloth with hemming or button hole stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Then sew the design which is in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">A beautiful table-cloth has been done.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Take a piece of jute fabric (45x45 centimeter).</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Sew the design with cross stitches which is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Choose the colours of threads as you like: Fill up the whole fabric, by sewing.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Then sew a lining with finished fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">A mat has been done.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">This way you can sew a Zainamaz too.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Dresses made by knitting is an other process of weaving.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Such as-singlets socks, sweater/cardigan etc. can be made by machine as well as with knitting needles or crochet hooks by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">It has been discussed briefly here how to do knitting with knitting needles.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">You have learnt about casting loops, purl and knit loops.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">A few of them are repeated here to remind you again.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The method of casting on loops/ stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Casting stitches on a Knitting needle is the first step in knitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">There are several ways to do this.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The stitches/loops can be cast with one needle or two needles.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">This method is needed for which dress's border should be tight.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Such as borders of coats, caps etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This method uses one needle and two ends of yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The length will depend on the number of stitches/loops to be cast on (look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Pass the needle through the loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Gently pull the ends of the yarn to tighten the loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Arrange the yarn so the shorter end is on the left-ball end, on the right (look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Hold the needle in the right hand as you would hold a pencil.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Put the yarn over the first (picture) finger under the middle and over the middle joint of the ring finger.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The first finger moves the yarn around the needle, while the middle and ring fingers regulate the flow of the yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Pick up the free end of the yarn with the left hand(look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Hold it lightly against the palm with the middle ring and little fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Wrap the yarn around the thumb, forming a loop close to the needle (picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Insert the needle into the loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Pass the yarn in the right hand under the point of the needle and over it (picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Draw the needle and yarn through the loop and slip the loops from the thumb, leaving a stitch on the needle (picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Tighten the loop, or stitch by pulling the free end of the yarn with the left hand (picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Repeat the procedure until the required number of stitches have been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">There are many procedures for knitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It is necessary to learn these procedures such as-knitting with two needles, knitting round, purl and knit etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">This method of casting on loops is referred to as knitting on stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">It is worked with two needles and one end of yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">To begin the process, make a slip-knot at the end of the yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Put the needle held in the left hand into the loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Then insert the needle in the right hand into the loop under the left-hand ; needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Put the yarn under and over the right-hand needle (Look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Draw the yarn through the loop, being careful not to pull the stitch off the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">It should remain on the left-hand needle (picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Transfer the new loop from the right-hand needle to the left-hand one (picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Continue this procedure until the required number of stitches have been cast on (Look at. the Picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Knitting stitches with long needles is comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">To Knit, put the needle with the cast on stitches in the left hand the empty one and the yarn in the right hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Place the point of the needle into the front of the stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Bring the yarn under and over the top of the right hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Draw the yarn through the stitch, making a new stitch on the right-hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Slip the old stitch from the left-hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Continue to make all knit stitches this way (Look at the, picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Thickness or density of knitting This means knitting tight or loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It is sometimesdone at the beginning of a row.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Usually it is done when a nice andshowy dress is knitted.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">If the edges of the dresses are done followingthis procedure then these become very nice and stiff.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Usually a stitchis slipped purl wise from the left-hand needle to the right hand needleby inserting the right-hand into thefront of the stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Then transfer the stitch without knitting or purling it.Keep the yarn at the , back of thework (Look at the pictures).</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Instead, move the right- hand needle under the left one.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Knit into the back of the same stitch to produce the extra stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Taking stitch and building double stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Then slip the old stitch off the left- hand needle, leaving two stitches on the right- hand needle instead of one (Look at the pictures).</sent>
				<sent id ="128">To increase the purling, purl first into the front of the stitch in the regular way but do not remove the stitch from the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Instead, Taking Stitch and building double stitches Knitting with two needles make the extra stitch by purling into the back of the same stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Then slip the old stitch off the left-hand needle, leaving two stitches on the right-hand needle instead of one (Look at the pictures).</sent>
				<sent id ="131">To shape a knitted piece, the number of stitches can be reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">This can be done in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">There are two common methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">But here only one, method is mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The other one you will know later.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Two stitches are knitted together for reducing stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It is done on a knitted row.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">To decrease in knitting place the right- hand needle through the front of, the second stitch and then through the first.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">This method can be used for knitting more.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">than two stitches together.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">To reduce purling, purl two stitches together on a purl row (look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="142">This stitch produces a dainty type of ribbing with a stretchy quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">For the beginning row, cast on an even number of stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The 1st, row-repeat the following procedure.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Put yarn over, Slip I and knit 1.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The second row-repeat the following procedure.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Put yarn over.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Slip Knit 2 together.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Repeat the second row as many times as required.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Cut on stitches, as required (or 10 stitches).</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Knit 4 rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">5th row-knit 9 then increase 1 stitch, repeat it until the end of the row.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">6th row and the alternative rows will be the same, knit all.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">7th row-knit 10, increase 1, repeat this till the end of the row.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">9th row-knit 11, increase 1, repeat this till.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">the end of the row.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">11th row knit 12, increase 1, repeat this till the end of the row.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">13th row-knit 13, increase 1, repeat this till the end of the row.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">15th row-knit 14, increase 1, repeat this till the end of the row.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">17th row-knit 15, increase 1, repeat this till the end of the row.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Then keep on knitting for a few rows as required.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">2nd row and alternate rows with the same 2nd row- knit all till the end.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">3rd row-knit 14, 2 together (decrease) repeat this till the end of the row.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">5th row-knit 13, 2 together, repeat this till the end of the row, 7th row-knit 12, 2 together repeat till the end of therow.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">11th row-knit 8, 2 together,repeat till the end of the row.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">19throw-knit 6, together, repeat until theend of the row.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">31st row-knit 2, togetherrepeat this untill the end of the row.Now turn out the yarn and push, itinto the remain-stitches and then sew the sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">In the middle of the cap put a pompon.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">A pompon looks like a Kadam (a variety of flower), Socks, Caps orCardigans can be decorated withpompons.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Take half of a post card in length or a piece of board paperin double in length according howbig a pompon you want to make.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Then wind wool over the card.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Now take a piece of double wool andinsert it into the wound wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Two ends of the both sides should be kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Now take off, the wound woolfrom the paper and bind by the tow ends of wool tight.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">You should out the ends of the double wool long to sew it on the top of the cap.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Then cut a little bit to make the shape of the pompon (Look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Cast on stitches as required, or if you like to make 15 centimeter bag, then cast on 42 stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Now knit or purl all rows or knit one ribbed pattern untill 34 centimeter length bind off stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Now fold it in the middle (lengthwise) and sew tow sides together, it seems like a bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Then one side (opened side) cast on 8 stitches (4 from each side).</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Knit these four stitches until it comes 30 centimeter in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">From the other side of the bag cast on 8 stitches too and with that 30 centimeter ribbon join and bind off the stitches together.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">A bag has been done.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">If you wish you can sew a few coloured beads in the bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">That will look beautiful.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
