<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-artCraft-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:58.986</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">239</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2933</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">919</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t19">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">There are various Media's of drawing paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Such as-oil colour, water-colour etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The first material for drawing is paper, The papers are thick-thin, rough surfaced, smooth and shining.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The thick paper is called board.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Theseboards can also be found rough surfaced or smooth and of various kinds and colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The papers easily found for painting in Bangladesh are called Cartridge paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Cartridge paper are of two/three qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The coloured cartridge paper is not milk-white, slightly dull-white.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The'pictures can be drawn with, pencils, pen-ink, water colours and pastels in this paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">This paper is firstly used for drawings and paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Slightlythick and white offset paper is good to draw with pen-ink and pencils.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">It is not good for water colour painting.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The rough surfaced paper is neededfor water-colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The ordinary quality painting can be done in the rough-surfaced cartridge paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">But for the water colour, the best paper is Hand-made paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">It is not yet made in Bangladesh This paper is made in India mainly in Calcutta andits surrounding areas as a cottage industry (crafts).</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The painting can bedone in this paper with pastal colour too.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The other papers which can be found in our Country are art-card, boox-board, paste-board and variousthick coloured papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The ordinary papers for writing and printing booksis called newsprint paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Art-card and art-paper is only fit for pen-ink and brush-ink paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">These papers are smooth and shining.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">This paper, is suitable for improved printing.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Box-board is thick with one side white and smooth and another side gray or brown and slightly rough.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">This paper is used to mount or frame Pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">It is interesting to paint with pastel on the gray side.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Paste-boardis thick and hard, the colour is deep brown or light brown.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">It is possible topaint with pastel on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">There are some papers which are used to bindbooks and to make packages, the artists some times use them to paint.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">There are coloured papers which are of many colours and texturs-thin, rough, smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The pictures can be drawn in many ways on these papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Some : artists make various kinds Of pictures with these papers by cutting, tearing and pasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The pictures which are made by cutting and tearing paper is called Collage-picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Pencil The pencil is a too] for drawing.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">There is a kind of pencil which is used for writing and there are different kind of -pencils for drawing.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">They are The hard leaded pencils are used for writing.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">These pencils can not mark deeply on paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">To get a dark effect 2B, 3B, 4B, 5B, and 6B are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The leads of these pencils are soft and appear dark on the paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Many artists draw full pictures with pencils.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">It is possible to draw a full Picture with 2B, 4B and 6B pencils.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">We write with a pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">A picture can be drawn with a pen too.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">A beautiful picture can be drawn with a fountain pen with black ink in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The Pictures can be drawn with other Coloured ink too.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">But the artists give priority to black ink.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">There is a special kind of black ink, usually, which is called Chinese ink.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">But it is called Indian ink too.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Many artists draw pictures with brush and ink.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">But there are differences between brush-ink-pictures and pen-ink pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The black and white or Coloured pictures can be drawn with a pen, named felt-pen or signature-pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">It is possible to draw the same Pictures with a pen called marker-pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Shilpacharya liked to draw with the khag's pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Many of his famous drawings were drawn this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The village children, can easily collect the Bamboo- twinges and khags.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The brush is another main tool for doing paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Normally soft brushes are used for ink and water Colours; and relatively harder brushes used for oil and poster colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Various kinds and sizes of brushes are made according to colours, papers and canvases.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">But the use of, brushes depends entirely on the wish and convenience of the artist.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Brushes are usually made from animals hair, sometimes they are synthetically made.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">These are very thin brushes.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Board-Clip-Easel Different kinds of brushes for drawing Board-clips are necessary things for drawing a picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">It is convenient to draw a picture by fixing a paper on a board with a board-clip.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Some artists keep this board on the floor under the hands and some keep on the table to draw the pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Some draw pictures keeping this board on the easel.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">On the other hand an easel is the most important thing to paint on the canvas.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It depends on the person or how the artists will draw and feel convenient and conformable.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Without colours one cannot think of drawing a picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">If the pictures are drawn with pencils or ink these are considered as colours too.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">But coloured pictures are considered to be drawn with various colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Colours are found in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Water colours are found in boxes, tubes the cakes in a box and powder colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Poster colours are found in glass-pots.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Though the poster colour is a different media from the water colour, yet paintings get the same effect as the paintings done with water colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The pictures can be painted mixing water with powder colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But, there will be another effect if the gum is mixed with water and powder colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">There are three varieties of postar colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">They are chalk-pastel, oil-pastel and wax- crayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">These are found in colour boxes; various colours in the same box, like colored sticks to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Chalk pastel is slightly soft as congealed powder colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It is needed to spray very carefully with one kind of permanent- transparent liquid thing on the painting to make it permanent.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Otherwise the painting will be faded if it is rubbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">On the other hand, it is convenient to paint with oil-pastel and wax- crayon, which is make durable in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The subject matters of paintings are available in our surroundings.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">If you look at your surroundings you will see so many (countless) subjects in our nature, the way of living and environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">There are zoos in the city.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">There are many animals and birds in zoos.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The amusing gestures of birds and animals, their games, actions sleeping and many other poses may be the subjects of paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">2 Picture of Zainul Abedin on The crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Hasem khan's drawing The Buffaloes.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">There are pet birds, goats, dogs, cats almost in every house of a village.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Many people like pet wild birds too.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">There are pet animals and birds in the cities also.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">These pet animals and birds may be the subject of paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">There are many famous paintings on birds and animals by renowned painters.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Shilpacharya Zainul Abedin used crows and cows as the subjects of his paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Qumrul Hassan chose cows, elephants, horses, foxes, snakes and a variety of birds as the Subjects of his paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Paintings can be on parents, friends, relatives, brothers-sisters, grandfathers, grand- mothers or any other person you admire.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The painters should have a clear conception on which subjects they will draw.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">One who has never been in the village, never seen rivers and boats cann't draw a picture of a village.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He should know about the environment, the livelihood and life-style of the people, and think about the simple behavior of the village-people and the Subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Then his imaginations and thinking Should be dealt out beautifully and attractively.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">If the pictures are being drawn on the cities and parts, those should be observed minutely then the imaginations and thoughts can be expressed beautifully.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Drawings are bassed on one's own desire or pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The painter tries to draw simply whatever he thinks according to his convenience and comfort.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">No rule is needed for children's Paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">It is enough if they can fill up the pictures with colours and lines as they think and wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">There is no good result if the children are taught drawing and other rules of paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The paintings do not become nice and lively.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">You have drawn the Pictures that way simply and naturally in your childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The pictures which are drawn by the children never will be as same as the paintings drawn by the elder- artists.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">There is another characteristic and form in the child-art.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The cows, fishes, trees, people etc. have a child-like truant which are drawn by the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">As the children grow up the mode of paintings change too.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">You have been introduced a bit to the rules of simple drawings.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">There will not be much change in class seven.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">But you will have to practice more; the rules and the artistic skills are to he learnt thoroughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">What you have to learn are forms, drawings with shapes, distance and proportion, light and shade, arranging subjects and using of calours.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Observe the houses, trees, boats, cars, horses, people, animals and birds which are in Our surroundings.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">How do they look?</sent>
				<sent id ="120">What are the real forms?</sent>
				<sent id ="121">When the children are growing they wish to draw correctly the real form and shapes of the above mentioned objects.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">For that reason, a few rules must be learnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">It should be a habituated by practicing drawings again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">It can be observed that all things may be put in two or three shapes or forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">These shapes are round- shaped, square shaped and triangle- shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It is shown here through a few pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Look at the pictures and whenever you wish to draw something, observe and try to understand it is fat, thin, round, square or triangle.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">What will be the size of the boat in proportion to a man?</sent>
				<sent id ="129">If there is a tree near by, then what should .be</sent>
				<sent id ="130">the relative size of the tree?</sent>
				<sent id ="131">All these things are to be considered to draw a picture properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The comparison in size or proportion of small and big things is to be shown properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Suppose there are three boats or many people.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Then the distance can be made perceptible in the painting.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Structure of almost everything around us is similar to any shape of a round triangular of rectangular home.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The light and shade has an important role in some pictures except line-drawing and designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The light and shade should be shown properly in the paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">It is natural to have shade and darkness against sun shine.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The shade of bright-sun is bright too.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">In the afternoon the rays of the sun is soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The shadow is the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The sun sets in the evening that's why it is their dark.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The light and shade call be divided in three groups for drawing the pictures conveniently.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Hence a few common rules should he maintained to draw a beautiful picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">But the main thing is that at first try to understand and observe minutely the Subject which you wish to draw.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Be easy and coverageous when you draw a picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Colour as you like, keep away any hesitation or fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Suppose the subject of a painting is a village house.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">There are three tin-shade-houses, trees, family members, hens and ducks etc. these things are to be arranged properly and proportionately.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">So the picture will look beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This is called the arrangement of the subject.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Not only the drawing but every subject should be arranged in such a way, that it will look beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Such as a village scene, birds, animals, a man, flowers etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">A subject may be arranged in three or four ways, select the best one, draw that one and put colours and light and shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">It cannot be said that use of colours can be learnt from books.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Because drawing a picture demands practice and training.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Be accustomed to the uses of various colours by colouring and drawing pictures again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The Students will learn from the teachers how to colour properly in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">You Certainly have known about the primary and secondary colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">But it is again mentioned as a reminder.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">By mixing primary colours with secondary colours the other necessary colours can be prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">But it is not possible to prepare milk white and black colours, mixing with other colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It is slightly possible to prepare a deep blackish colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Some pictures are painted with mixing colours with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">These colours are called water-colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The water colours can be found in a box like square tablets.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Loose tablets can be found too.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">But there are watercolours in the tubes like tooth paste.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">It is easy to use these colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">There is another colour named poster- colour, mostly like the paste, found in a glass bottle.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The poster colours can be used with water to paint a picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Though it is similar to the water-colour, its quality is different.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The water colour is transparent and thin.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">It. cannot be covered putting one colour on another.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Due to its transparency, both the colours can he seen and another colour can be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">With one poster colour, another colour can be covered completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The Poster colour is thicker and heavier than the water colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Usually both the water colour and the poster colour are used on papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The beautiful one should be drawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Blind Man's bluff : Poster and Water colour Drawn by Sanzeeda Fatema Shamma, age-12 drawing a picture with water colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The paintings may be drawn on thick cartridge papers which are available in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It is possible for one to collect hand-made or other high-quality papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Cut one sheet of cartridge paper in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">If you wish, you can cut it in smaller sizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">You have to remember that, the papers can not be twisted/ wrenched.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The cutting must be nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Fix your paper on a hard board with a board-clip so that it may remain fully stretched.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Now keep the board on the floor or prop it against a support.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Take some clean water in a pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Keep a palette (a painter mixes his colours) or a few small white saucers, keep the tubes or poster colours beside you.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Now it is time to draw.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Before you start think about the subject you want to draw.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Suppose you will draw the sky, covered with black- white clouds.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Draw the picture of clouds marking very lightly with the pencil.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">It is better not to rub with a rubber.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">If it is rubbed too much, there will be unnecessary marks on the paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">It will spoil the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Moist the paper with a piece of cloth or a broad brush before applying the colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Wait for a few minutes for the paper to dry a bit that.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Then take the colours on the saucers.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The brown colour is to be taken too.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Mix the brown and blue colours with water and apply that on the half-wet paper very lightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">The colours should be applied from the top of the paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The brush should he used from left to right.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The colours will flow like the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Finish your wash quickly taking off the flowing colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Leave out the white parts of the clouds while you give the wash with blue-brown colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">That means white parts of the paper will remain white.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Then wait for a while.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">When the paper becomes lightly dried, then begin to colour the black parts of the clouds.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Prepare sufficient colours with blue - black and black - brown for this in different saucers.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Then apply the slight-light blue-black colours on the black parts of the clouds according to your drawing.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Then apply black- brown colours on some of the parts which you want to show darker.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">After applying the colours on the wet paper and wet-colours, the effect will be the black clouds like the wet sky of a rainy-day.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Now apply very light black-brown colours on the white parts of the clouds where necessary to look shaded.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Your painting is complete now.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">A simple method is discussed here.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">A picture with water colour can be done-in a very short time in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">But various colours will be needed according to the subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">There will he differences of colours and more time will be needed for light and shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Wax or oil-pastel and chalk-pastel are a kind of Coloured sticks.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The painting is done by Rubbing these coloured-sticks on the papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">There is no need of mixing the water, oil or gum with these colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">But the liquid-fixative-mixture-spray is used for the chalk-pastel to make it permanent.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Because it is very soft after painting if it is moved the colours may he wiped out or may fall.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">In the same way the liquid spray is used for paintings which are drawn with charcoal, to make them permanent.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Then these paintings may last long.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">This liquid fixative can be found in a bottle in a shop, where colours are sold.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Usually oil colour is found in a tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The painting is done by mixing linseed oil and tarpeen with this colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The painting is done on thick canvas, hard board and a plank of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The paper is made specially for oil colour paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">But the canvas made of cloth is the best for oil-colour-paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The painting should be done in the media of oil colours in class seven and later for two to three years.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">It is better to paint with oil colours after some experience with water-colours and pastel-colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">So the paintings and other crafts should be done as many times as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">It is good to learn these from the teachers, directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Then it may be learnt thoroughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The Students should be attentive as well as the guardians Should give much importance to the Subject also.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
