<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-artCraft-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.017</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">331</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4391</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1083</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t20">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">You have learnt how to make a rope and a braid rope.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Looking at the pictures you will remember how to make ropes and braids, so it is not mentioned here.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">You have learnt how to make jute table mats too.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Let us make more beautiful table mats and dolls.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The main material-jute can be found everywhere and anytime in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">You will be able to collect these things easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Make 6 mm.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">wide and about 3 mm.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The braid should be made as long as necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">So, that the mat can be completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Nearly 60-65 metre braid may be needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">If there is more no harm, it may be needed later, colour 15-20 meter braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">What colour will you put? Brown colour will match with the jute-colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">You will get powder colour in the market, which can be mixed with the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Brown colour can be prepared by mixing green with red colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">If there is more green in proportion then the brown colour will be blackish.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">You may put other colours too, as you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">But make sure colour of the jute does not look odd.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Mix the powder colours with the water in the big or small pot then put your jute-braid into the colour for an hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">After that take out the coloured braid and dry it.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Insert coloured thread same as your coloured braid into the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">In another needle insert the brown coloured thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The preliminary work is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Now let us begin the main task.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">While, rolling over and over, hold your braid in vertical position by the wide side, wind tightly and sew everytime while winding up the braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">So that the coil of the jute-braid will he strong and the shape will not be bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">When, 7 centimeter of diameter has been done cut the braid and sew it nicely so that the fibers of jute can not be seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It should be noticed that some how the fibers of jute do not come out in strands (or unevenly).</sent>
				<sent id ="29">That's why the edge of' the braid should be tightened with the same coloured thread as the braid and then should be cut.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Now take the brown coloured braid, sew and Join the brown braid with the white one where it was stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Roll it twice in the coil with the brown braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Cut and separate the surplus brown braid after completing two lines and sew the edge.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Then sew the edge of the white braid with the coil and make ways repeatedly around the coil.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Sew every wave and complete the whole coil, this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The height of the wares would not be more than 21_2 centimeter.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Completing this line cut the braid and keep it separate; The measurement of every one should be the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">If one is small, other is big, and one is very high another is low it will not look nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Then sew another row of makes with brown coloured braid in the white coloured waves just, like the white row.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Sew nicely two edges of the braid together completing the waves and cut out the surplus part of the braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The waves of brown colour and white colour will be attached so closely, that it will be strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Have a look and see how beautiful the 12 centimeter diameter table- mat looks!</sent>
				<sent id ="42">You can use it under a tea-cap, saucer, bowl or a tea pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Let us try to make this table-mat bigger for the dining-table plates or any other uses.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Don't you agree?</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Taking a white braid fix it with your completed table-mat by sewing.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Now roll up the braid on the waves carefully and sew it with every wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Be careful, so that the rolled-coil stays in place.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Wind the roll of the white braid repeatedly and sew.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">When the coil is 17 centimeter diameter, cut out the white braid and sew the edge of the braid neatly.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Then join the brown-braid and sew in tow rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Remember that, after every row of braid you have to fix it with the former one, neatly.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The height of the waves would be about 4 centimeter.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Every wave will be the same size.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Make another row with - the brown coloured braid, fixing it with the white waves thoroughly, just like the white one.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Completing this, cut out the braid and sew perfectly.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Now cut off the surplus part of the braid separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">See, how beautifully a 25 centimeter diameter table-mat has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">You can make small and big or middle sized mats this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The table-mats may be of various sizes according to your need.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Usually the mats are used in a set not one separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">All mats of a set are made of the same design.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">There are six mats in a set.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">So it won's he enough to learn to make only one mat of a design.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Skill for making necessary numbers of mats of the same design should be acquired.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Since now you have made mats that are round.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">If you try a bit you will be able to make mats of different types and shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Such as Oval, Long, Square, Rectangular etc. Generally the procedures to make these mats are more or less: the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">But the beginning is different.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Let us make a tow ends round long mat Take a white braid and bind one end swing it.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Fold it when it is 7 centimeter long, keep the width of it in a vertical position.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Now sew the first folding and tack it.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Turn the braid over and over following your shape and in turning sew each time properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Do this ten times.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">You will see that, two ends of the flat coil has became half-circle and a long small mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The more turn your braid over and over the mat will be bigger.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">If you put coloured braid in the middle it will be more attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Cut off the white braid after your -required size of the mat and sew the edge of the braid properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Then make waves with white coloured braid around the coil and sew the ends of the braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">After that put another row of waves on the coloured one with white braid and complete your mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">If you wish you can make other things in this process too.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">You can make a door- mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">You will have to use thick braid (7 cm. at least) sewed with thick and strong thread or jute-thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">It won't need to make the waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">You have to remember one thing that, at the beginning the longer as you keep the braid, the longer will be your mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Such as If you want to make the mat 5 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">longer in the width, then keep 5 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">first and fold the braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">And if you want 7 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">long in the length, keep 7 cm. of braid and then-fold.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">For the door-mat if you want to make 15 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Counting in this process you will be able to decide the sizes and shapes of your mats or door-mats as you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">You can make beautiful dolls with jute easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">If you learn the simple and easy methods of making dolls, you will be able to make different beautiful dolls with your imagination.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Let us begin to make a doll.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">At first you have to make a structure of a doll which you want to make.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Take two pieces 15 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">long wire, having 6 cm. of two wires apart holding together equaly, roll 2 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">like a rope.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">look at the first picture then you can understand easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Bending the wires, make the primary shape of the doll looking at the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Then take a bunch of jute of 3 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">diameter, comb this well, to make it even and smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">After combing, it will be 21_2 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Cut off the waste parts of the jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">So that the smoothest part of the bunch remains upto 30 cm. in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Bind in the middle of the bunch of jute tightly with thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">This ball will be about 21_2 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The doll looks-more beautiful with a fine rope of jute than the thread of qunny.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Take the frame of the doll which is ready with wires.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It has the frame of two.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">hands and two legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Then put aika glue in theremaining jute to make it swing.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Begin to roll from top of the wire and roll the thread tightly, leave l cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">jute fibre and put aika glue.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In this waythe hands and legs of the doll .</sent>
				<sent id ="116">have been done (Look at the pictures).</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Now if you fix the head and body the doll will be completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">You have done the head before the hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Roll upthe neck and fix the head with knots, firmly with two small bunches of jute fibre, taking one .</sent>
				<sent id ="120">from the front the other from the back of the shoulders.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Take another bunch of jute fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">In a fluffy condition it will be 31_2 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Comb it well to make it smooth, cut the surface jute-fibres from the both sides, keeping the smooth part.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Then folding the bunch of the smooth-fibre in the middle, hang it on two shoulders.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Then mix the bunch of the smooth-fibre in the middle, hang it on two shoulders.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Bind and 1put knots with the thread by rolling 3-4 times from 21_2 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">below from the shoulders.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The binding place is the waist of the doll.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Notice that, the bunch of the hung jute fibre should be spread fluffily around the frame under the waist equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Then cut off the surplus jute evenly with scissorskeeping 31_2 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">length of the jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The frock of the doll has been done.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The doll is almost done.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Then put aika glue on the head from the middle to the back side of the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Then put a little jute fibre on the gum spreading equally from the middle of the fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Notice it very well that, the coverlet of the jute fibre should cover the head completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Looking at the picture, sew it with coloured thread of jute and fix it properly on the above of the forehead.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Sew the back side too.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Then turning the fibres which remained on the forehead, mixed together with the back side fibres and bind with thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Then sew the eyes and nose with the needle and thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Make a braid of jute fibre and fix it on the waist of the doll with aika or by sewing (Look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="142">You can-hang this doll on the wall or any other suitable place.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It will look nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">A, small and thin rope of jute will be needed to be fixed on the head of the doll to hang it on the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">This doll can be kept standing in arty place.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">If you want a standing doll then you will have to keep 1 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">long wire at the end of the legs in the frame.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">You can see so many things made of clay everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">You use a few of them in your daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">You played with clay dolls, horse, birds etc. in your childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">You, the girls used to forget everything when you got earthen toys, cooking pots, Didn't you?</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Clay is available in abundance every where.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">But, can potters make these things with all types of clay?</sent>
				<sent id ="154">No, they can't.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">For these works, they need a special type of clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The dried clay turns into dust (sand).</sent>
				<sent id ="157">This dust flies to our houses and on the other things.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">You can take these dusts together in your hand and can dust them off.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">But if your hands are wet, then this sticky dust will stick-to your hand, this won't fall if you shake it off.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">This gluey existence is one of the qualities of the clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">A small clod of clay is made of millions and millions of particles of dust.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The tiner clay is, gluey the stickier it will be (clay).</sent>
				<sent id ="163">According to this, the clay may be roughly divided into three classes such as sticky-clay, loamy-clay and sandy-clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The, sticky- clay is very gluey, loamy clay is roughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">gluey and sandy clay is less gluey.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The sticky-clay is not so suitable for making things of clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The articles made of this clay become much more contracted, when these are dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">As a result of too much contraction, the shapes of these articles become spoiled and may crack.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The loamy- clay is not so gluey so that the forms and shapes of the articles cannot be made as one's desire, sometimes they crack.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">So its form, or shape won't be so much cracked.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">It is almost impossible to make an article with sandy-clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Though air article is made thick, after drying it will collapse when it is moved a bit.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">So, for making an article, the clay is prepared properly by blending sticky and loamy clay in equal proportions, considering their qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">This blended clay is called sticky-loamy clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Any form, thick or thin shape of any article can be made with this clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">It shrinks very little at the time of drying and firing, so the shapes or forms of the articles do not change or get deformed.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">To make any earthen article the clay should be prepared properly for the work.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">You have learnt the preparation of clay in class six, yet it is told here in short.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">This is very important, because if the clay is not prepared well, any work would not be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">You can prepare clay in two very, easy methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Make clay powder grinding a clod of clay as grinding of rice powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">You can grind it with a stone slab or flat, mortar, keeping your clod on the brick-built floor or a low wooden seat.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Sift the clay powder with a sieve of flour.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Put necessary amount of water in the powder and mixing it well making the paste like flour paste.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">It will not be suitable if it is very hard or very soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Take the paste in your palm of the hands and bring out the air, pressing the paste of the clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Put one third small dried clod of clay into an earthen manger and add two third of clean water in the manager.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Then put a lid on the manger and keep it for two to three days like this.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">When the clay becomes very soft or muddy then mix the mud well with the remaining water.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Keep another earthen manger beside this one.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Now sift the whey of the mixed clay with a wooden sieve and fine wire keeping it on the 2nd earthen manger.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Then keep this sifted whey covered with a lid for one day.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Next day you will see that the clay whey sank slowly in thee bottom of the manger and the clean water is on the top.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Throw out the water with a small cup carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">After two days you will see that the clay-whey became like mud and there is again clean water on the top of the manger.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Throw out the water again with a cup very carefully, so that the mud would not be moved.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Keep it for two days more covering with a lid until you find the Soft mud like butter.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Then keep the soft mud spreading on a thick cloth or a gunny into the house or in the veranda/corridor of a house.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">If the polythene is not available then you may keep it wrapped with a wet- cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">If you sprinkly water when the cloth is a little hit dried, then the clay will remain soft forma number of days.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">There are potters everywhere in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The children, who live in the villages near the potter's house have seen, how the potters make things in a moment by turning the wheels.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">The wheels with which the potters make clay-vessels is called the potter's wheel.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The men used to make potteries in different processes before the invention of this wheel.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">To make pots putting on the clay coil one after another is one of those process.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">We call it Coil in English.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">For that reason, this procedure is known as a Coil System.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Now let us make a beautiful pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Materials and tools are needed to make any thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">A pot will be made with clay, so the clay is its material.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The pot will be made in the coil-system, so there is no need of so many instruments or tools for this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">A roller, made of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">If it is not available then a tube/pipe of a bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">A knife, made of a thin slip of bamboo (Scrapped in one end pointed and the other end blunt).</sent>
				<sent id ="215">A Modeling tool made of a thin slip of wood (Looking at the picture it can be made easily).</sent>
				<sent id ="216">A Modeling tool is a slightly thick wire bending its end fixed it in a wood stick or a bamboo-stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">(Looking at the picture it can be made easily).</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Do you know, what is meant by a coil?</sent>
				<sent id ="219">So you can understand that, the coil is a thing which is made by rolling anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">You will make a coil system pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">What kind of pot will you make?</sent>
				<sent id ="222">A flower vase?</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Yes make an easy long vase like a cylinder tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">If you can make this, you will be able to make other vessels as you like using your imaginations.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Draw a design of your vase on a paper before.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The design is a kind of picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The length, width and height, these three dimension of any thing can be found in a picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">But the identity of one side can be seen in a design, so drawing have to be done for different sides, separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The vase which you are going to make is like a round cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">It is same from every side.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">It has a diameter and height, so if you draw the diameter and the height of the design that will be enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Looking at the picture, this will be clear to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">You will have to learn how to make the coil, before making the flower vase.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">It is not possible to roll a small and soft clay cold round.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">This clay clod is needed to be rolled up thin and long (lengthwise).</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Take a small clod of clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Keep it in your palms of hands and press it slightly and move it by rolling in front and back.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Look, the clay clod has become long enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Look, the clay has become like a long creeper.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">To make this you will need to move your hands not only front or back but both of the sides equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">You can make various things, if it is as fat as a wooden pencil.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Cut the coil as much a bangle and join two ends and make a bangle.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">If the coil is cut slanting, the joining becomes nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Wet two ends of the coil with water before joining.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Now, let us make the flower vase.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Keep the design of the flower vase in front of you which was drawn by you.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Make 11_2 a cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">thick clay-slab like a chapati, with a small clod of clay by rolling with a roller, to make the bottom of the flower vase.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The clay- slab should be cut according to its measurement of the design of the flower-vase.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Then make a coil bangle according to the measurement of the bottom part of the clay-slab.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Now put the clay bangle making it wet on the bottom part of the clay-slab.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Now put the clay-bangle making it wet on the bottom part properly by its side.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Be careful so that the round shape of the coil does not be ruined.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Every measurement of the coil will be of the same diameter because the form of the vase is long like a barrel.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">It will be difficult to make the inside of the vase smooth if it is too high.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">For that reason make smooth and even inside the vase pulling and rubbing with-a wooden modeling tool after putting five or six coils.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Then after putting five or six coils make smooth and even in the same process inside the flower vase.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Notice that, the folds of the coils remain intact, out side the flower vase.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Completing the work of making the flower vase as the same height of the design, stop it.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Taking it in your hand see how it is to look at; It may not be.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">similar to your design, it may be uneven or zigzag.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Don't be disappointed.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">At the beginning it may he disappointing after making a few it will be all right.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Different kinds of flower vases and other pots and articles can be made with these clay-coils.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">But, draw the design taking measurement of whatever you want to make.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Then you will decide how thick or big coil you will use for these.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Otherwise you will not be able to make things with coils to your likings/choices.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">There are a few designs of pots, following these pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">You might have done a few things with cotton and cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">You have done a picture of a duck with cotton, an ordinary cushion too, havn't you?</sent>
				<sent id ="271">This time make a more beautiful picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">A decorative flower vase with various coloured flowers and leaves, then a bird and at last a cushion with cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">A Picture which you will make this time, will be red, white, yellow orange violet etc. various coloured flowers green leaves and stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">It will be a flower vase, so you will need different coloured cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The powder colours which is to dissolved in the water can be found in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">It all colours cannot be found, you can get the necessary colours by mixing one colour with another.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">If you mix a little red colour with this, then this colour will be leaf green.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Colour your cotton before and dry the colour you want to use in your picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Draw the picture on a paper which you want to do in cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">You will have to draw the picture as big as the picture of the cotton you want to make.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">There will be different coloured flowers so the flowers will be of different classes and shapes, big-small in sizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">The forms and shapes of various types of flowers and leaves will be different also.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Draw the picture considering all these factors.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Now putting a carbon paper's black side on a white paper, keep your drawing on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Fix these papers together with clips so that they cannot more.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Then draw farce the lines of the picture with a pencil.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">You can see that the picture is printed on the paper on reverse way.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Draw 2-3 more wrong drawings, like this.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Decide which colour will he for which flower by colouring your first picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Which colour will be the flower-vase?</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The colour of the leaves will be the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Take the designs which you've got printed by the carbon paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">At first cut out the part of the flower vase with scissors.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Looking at the coloured picture, cut the parts of the flowers, keep every coloured flower parts separately one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Keep a little space around the flower vase and flowers when you cut these.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Don't cut just on the line.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">You have got more pictures, so it won't be difficult for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Then take the cut part one by one and put the flour-gum in the reverse side and put the selected coloured cotton I cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">thick and press it slightly, so that it may be fixed properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Putting the cotton on all the parts of papers, let these be dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">The black cloth is to be ironed, so that it would not be curled.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">See that the cloth on the board is fully tight /stretched.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Nom - decorate these parts on the black cloth which is on the paste-board looking at the coloured picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">See that the parts of the picture is fixed properly, any part does not come apart.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Now see how the coloured cotton picture looks.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">The flowers and leaves look like real, soft flowers and leaves, don't they?</sent>
				<sent id ="307">You will be able to make other beautiful pictures an your own in this procedure, if you try.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">You can make not only flowers and leaves but people with dresses, birds, animals, trees etc. in this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Framing the picture of cotton it may be hung on the wall, it will look very nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">You have certainly seen birds, animals and many other things made of cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">This can be made in different ways and methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">I will show you a very easy method of making a bird with cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">It looks like a flying white cotton pigeon.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">It will be interesting to make it.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">A little amount of ordinary and some bandage cotton will be needed for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">At first make a ball like a hard egg with small quantity of ordinary cotton by binding it with thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Make another small ball in the same process (Look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Following the picture, join the small ball with the big egg putting aika glue or any other strong glue on one of its broad side.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">This way the main frame of the bird has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Now the tail and wings of the bird are to be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">The tail, wings and the frame of the bird have been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">The beak is left now.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">If you fold a small thick paper in triangle it will be the beak of a bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Look, what a beautiful bird has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">No, Your work is not finished yet.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Up to this only the frame of a bird has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Fix a thin coverlet of cotton with glue on the head and the frame of the bird's body to make it smooth and beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">There is no need to put coverlets of cotton on the tail and wings again.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Colour the beak orange and draw two dots with black colour for two eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Look, how beautiful the bird has been make, just like a white flying pigeon.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">If you want to make a coloured bird, then colour the coverlet of cotton before hand.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
