<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-bdGlobal-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.143</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">247</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3801</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1253</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t26">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The birth of independent Bangladesh is the most important event in the national life of Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Bangalees continuously protested and launched movements against the exploitation, suppression and discrimination of Pakistani rulers.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Along with these movements and events, the nationalistic feelings of Bangalees were awakened and their anti-Pakistani sentiments became forceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The events from 1947 to 1971 of Pakistani era had a far-reaching impact on our national history.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The crisis of ideology in Pakistan became clear during that period.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Following are some important chapters of the movements and struggles against Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">This condition could be called crisis of identity.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The principal argument for the creation of Pakistan was that the Hindu and the Muslim were two different nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">But after independence leaders realized that there were other identities of men besides religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Language was one of the identities.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Between the two parts of Pakistan, in East Pakistan most of the people spoke Bangla where in West Pakistan people spoke four different languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In spite of making them united by means of Urdu, it was not possible to eliminate the differences of regions and cultures.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">They even took a stand against the rich Bangla literature and heritage and tried to belittle famous literary persons like Rabindranath, Modhusudan and Bangkim.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">This instead of creating unity, created more conflicts and divisions among the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The Bangalee Muslims who struggled hard to establish Pakistan were the first ones to realise that their dreams about the new country had been shattered.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The renowned people of East Pakistan foresaw the ruin of Bangalees because of such steps taken by Pakistani government.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">It is not an ideology, rather a fact.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Even after forty years of independence of Bangladesh, Pakistan is still suffering from the same crisis of ideology.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The students of Dhaka University protested saying, no no no.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Educationists, literary personalities, intellectuals and most of the political leaders of this country took stand in favor of Bengali language.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">But the Prime Minister Liakot Ali Khan vehemently opposed the proposal.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Unfortunately many Bangalee members of Muslim League took part against the proposal.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">But it was rational only for Bangla to be the state language.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The then population of Pakistan was 6 crore and 90 lac of which 4 crore and 40 lac were Bangalee.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">However, the rest 2 and a half crore people did not speak Urdu either.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">But because their mothertongues were not very advanced, their medium of education was Urdu.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">But Bangalees did not propose to make Bangla the only state language rather to give Bangla the status of a state language along with Urdu.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Many initiatives were undertaken in the province to implement the right of Bangla, the mothertongue.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Among these was the All Party State Language Movement Council formed by the liberal and progressive politicians and students of Dhaka University.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Among the student leaders were Kazi Golam Mahbub, Shawkat Ali, Gaziul Huq, Mohammad Toaha, Abdul Matin and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">But the movement could not be stopped by suppression and oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The Muslim League government decided to stop students under the leadership of Chief Minister Nurul Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Government declared section 144 within Dhaka University campus which meant that not more than 4 people could bring out a procession on the streets.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">But why would the demonstrating students accept that?</sent>
				<sent id ="35">They were ready to take any courageous step without any compromise for upholding the dignity and the right of their mother language.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Students the night before the 21st February decided to bring out a procession breaking section 144.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Police swooped on the demonstrating students that day with weapons and arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">First they charged baton and threw tear gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">But they failed to control the protestors.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Abdul Matin and Gaziul Huq were leading the procession while police opened fire and killed Rafiq Uddin, Abdul Zabbar and Abul Barkat.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Many were injured.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They were admitted into Dhaka Medical College Hospital.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Abdus Salam died while treatment was going on.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Nine years old young boy Ohiullah was also killed by police firing.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">All of them are language martyrs.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">On 23rd February a mausoleum was built on the spot where the students were killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">In 1963, a large mausoleum was built in place of this temporary one.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">This is the central Shahid Minar in front of the Dhaka Medical College.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Bangalees protected the dignity of their mothertongue by shedding blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">At last, the legislature of East Bengal took decision in favor of making Bangla as one of the state languages of Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Both Bangla and Urdu attained the dignity of being the state languages of Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Bangalees felt proud of Bangla language, Bangla literature and their 1000 years old cultural heritage.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The whole world regards Bangalees with respect for their language movement and sacrifices.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Our Language Movement achieved international recognition in In the same year, on 17 November, UNESCO declared 21st February as the International Mother Language Day.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">All the nations now observe 21st February every year to show respect to their own mother languages and to recollect the sacrifice of Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Since the very beginning of the creation of Pakistan, the people of East Pakistan had started to feel aggrieved by the conspiracies of the rulers.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">People of different opinions started getting united in the question of self protection and development.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The ruling Muslim League became the symbol of conspiracy and suppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">It was a period of transition in the history of Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">This alliance was known as United Front.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">In the election, United Front gained absolute majority.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Let us now discuss how many parties were there in the United Front.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">This election was not for forming the National Council of the country formed by the two parts of the parliament in Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It was the election for the legislature of the East Bengal only.The ruling party Muslim League along with16 other parties participated in this election.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">But the main competition was held between United Front and Muslim League.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">United Front participated with the symbol Boat.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Among the younger leaders, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman attracted the attention of all and became popular.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">United Front placed their 21 Points programme before the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">At that time, Muslims and people of other religions had separate seats and separate elections were held.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">All the ministers from the ruling party lost and the party obtained 10 seats only.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">This victory of the United Front was termed as the Ballot Revolution by the newspapers and magazines at home and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">This was the first election held in East Bengal where all the adult population cast their votes.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The Bangalees voted for the Boat symbol of the United Front being inspired to protect their rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The defeat of Muslim League proved that one could not deceive people for long using religion for oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">It also proved that no government could stay in power taking a stand against its people's language and culture, continuing suppression and oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The new spirit of nationalism in Bangalees inspired them of other movements.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">On the other hand, the Muslim League came to be known as an anti- people party.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">By 1957 this party got divided into multiple factions and finally descended from the rule of Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Muslim League did not secure a single seat in 1970s election.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The Reasons behind the Defeat of Muslim League and Victory of United Front The activities of Muslim League after independence began to agitate the Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">And since the victory of the Language Movement, people's expectation for political changes became stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">People of different ideologies and parties joined the United Front.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This was one of the reasons for the easy victory of United Front.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The 21 Point demands were also the reason of the victory of the party.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The United Front was a gathering of matured and experienced as well as young and new leaders.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Moreover, the participation and propaganda of the younger activists were notable.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">On the other hand, the activities of Muslim League were confused, inconsistent and lacked transparency.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">So the party leaders and workers of Muslim League could not stand before the manifesto and activities of the leaders of the United Front.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The reasons for Muslim League's defeat were their misrule, internal conflicts, corruption and discrimination between the two parts of Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Conspiracy of Pakistani rulers never stopped rather continued.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Within two months, the United Front government was dissolved.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">A civil government was then formed according to the Constitution of Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">But Iskandar Mirza declared martial law on 7 October, 1958 on the pretext of lawlessness and disorderly situation in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The activities of all political parties were banned.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The Chief of Army, General Ayub Khan was made the military ruler.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Many Bangalee leaders like Abul Monsur Ahmed and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman were arrested at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Within 20 days, Ayub Khan compelled Iskandar Mirza to resign and leave Pakistan and became the self declared president of Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">During Ayub Khan's reign, people started to unite and at one stage they started movements against the martial law.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Bangalees never retreated but moved forward despite different oppressions by Ayub Khan.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The streets resounded with protests and demands of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">It was the students of East Bengal who first started movements against Ayub Khan.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The Pakistani rulers had created discrimination in education sectors of the two parts of Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The educational institutions were inadequate and lewer in number in East Pakistan, and little money was sanctioned for education there.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Politics was forbidden from 1958 to Many leaders were arrested and imprisoned.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Bangalee students came forward to remedy this political crisis.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">In 1962, President Ayub Khan made a constitution where democratic desires of Bangalees were shattered.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">This constitution kept provision for Presidential form of government with centralized power in the president's hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">In the middle of 1962 students organized demonstrations and started a movement for cancellation of this constitution.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Students movement against Sharif Commission started gradually spreading across all the institutions in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The government was ultimately compelled to cancel the Sharif Commission in the face of students violent movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The people of the then East Pakistan again came onto the streets for their rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Sheikh Mujibur Rahman came to lead the movement for the safeguard of the rights of Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">the legislature or the parliament would be formed with all the adult franchise.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">And the government of Pakistan was to implement this.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The elected leaders of East Pakistan would rule their country in their own way.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The central government would hold the responsibility for policy formulation in areas of defense and foreign affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">East and West Pakistan would have two different currencies but they could be used easily in both parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The provincial governments would hold the power to fix and collect all taxes.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">A portion of the collected tax would be deposited to the treasury of the central government.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The foreign exchange earnings of each province should be accounted separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The provincial governments would have the right to formulate trade treaty and export- import deals with the rest of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">A paramilitary force should be formed separately for East Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Ayub Khan became apprehensive of the Six Point Demands because he realized that the exploitation of East Pakistan would end if they gained autonomy.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Besides, they were also apprehensive that East Pakistan might demand independence.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">But these export earnings instead of being spent for the development of East Pakistan were diverted to civil and military sectors in West Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Bangalees had limited opportunities in higher positions.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">With East Pakistan being autonomous, the West Pakistan would not have monopoly to these benefits and privileges.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">So the conspiracy against the people of East Pakistan started again.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">At that time many cases were filed against Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in different districts of the province.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The government started arresting the leaders of Awami League and filing cases against them.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Sheikh Mujibur Rahman along with Tajuddin Ahmed and other leaders of Awami League was subject to extreme harassments.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">But in no way the movement could be suppressed because of the firm leadership of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and his widespread popular support.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">In order to suppress the Six Point Demands, the rulers of Pakistan lodged cases against Sheikh Mujibar Rahman and other leaders for treason.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Some Bangalee army, navy and air force officials were also implicated in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Besides, allegations were brought against three top-level Bangalee civilian officials.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">In history, it is known as the Agartala Conspiracy Case.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">But ultimately, the government was forced to withdraw the case in the face of intense movevement by people and students.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">But the rebellious Bangalees were not to be suppressed, and massive movements started.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The students of Dhaka University came forward with a new Eleven Point Movement programme in addition to the Six Point Demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The Eleven Point Demand also included some other demands, which were just and right.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">These included tax reductions, nationalizing bank, insurance as well as industrial enterprises and releasing political detainees.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The Eleven Point Movement by the students made the spontaneous uprising of the people more wide-spread and stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">And an event of police atrocity stimulated the spirit of protesting conscience and the desire for movement among the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The deaths of Professor Shamshuzuha in Rajshahi, Sgt.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Zahurul Huq, student-leader Asad and young Matiur in processions turned the movement into a mass uprising.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Ayub Khan was forced on 22 February to withdraw the Agartola Case and to announce the unconditional release of all prisoners.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Remembering his enormous contribution to the nation, we shall always use Bangabandhu before his name.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The mass uprising in 1969 was the strongest movement during the tenure of Ayub Khan.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Even though it was a movement with some general demands, it turned gradually into a struggle for autonomy and for people's rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Only within three months this movement spread out beyond Dhaka to the remotest areas of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Through this movement, it was proved that the renaissance and unity of the people was stronger than the bullet of the autocratic rulers.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">As a result of this movement, students offered a new generation of leadership to the nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The students unity united the politicians too.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Ayub Khan was forced to resign.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">In this way the uprising in 1969, through the evolution of the Bangale nationalism, inspired the struggle for liberation.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The mass uprising sharpened the struggling minds of the Bangalees and turned them into a brave nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Above all, the mass uprising unified the Bangalees in terms of the thought of sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Following all these, the dominance of West Pakistan over East Pakistan came to an end.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The role of the mass uprising of 1969 in the birth of an independent Bangladesh is enormous.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">After handing over the official power to Yahya Khan, the Army Chief, Ayub Khan resigned.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Soon after assuming power, with an objective to pacify the Bangalees, Yahya Khan made a commitment to hold a general election.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The road to the creation of an independent Bangladesh was smoothened.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Now let us discuss how and which parties participated in this election.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">At that time, Pakistan had two parliaments or houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The two parts of Pakistan constituted the National Assembly which had 300 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Based on population, 162 seats were allocated to East Pakistan and 138 seats to West Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The Provincial Assembly of East Pakistan had 300 seats and the combined for Provincial Assemblies of West Pakistan had 300 seats.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The Government of Pakistan announced the dates of elections for National and Provincial Assemblies 7th December and 17th December respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">From the point of view of results, the elections of 1970 were noteworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">In the National Assembly, Awami League won 160 seats out of 162 seats allocated for East Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Winning 83 seats in West Pakistan, the PPP remained in the second position.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In this case, to form the government, the Awami League needed 151 seats which no other parties of Pakistan had.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">In the East Pakistan Provincial Assembly, the Awami League had similar success.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Here the Awami League won 298 seats out of 310 seats and achieved an absolute majority.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The Awami League won no seat in West Pakistan and the PPP did not have any candidate at all in East Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In spite of the various efforts by the Pakistan Government, the anti-Awami League parties could not influence the election.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">One could now be sure that the Bangalees are a separate nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">In this election, Awami League dominated in East Pakistan and PPP in West Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">As a result it was proved that the rule of West Pakistan over East Pakistan was not legitimate.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">It was also proved that the long demand of autonomy by Bangalees for so long was also legitimate.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">By means of victory in the election, the Awami League and Bangabondhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman became the symbol of emancipation for the Bangalee nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">After the birth of Pakistan, Pakistani rulers could not think of the Bangalees as one of their own.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">As a result, the Bangalees had a new foreign ruler instead of an earlier one.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The relations between the two parts of Pakistan became that of the exploiter and the exploited.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">We had become the exploited.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Through widespread disparities in political, administrative, military, economic, educational and cultural arenas, attempts were made to dominate the Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">But Bangalees protested through various means against these exploitations.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">In the end, the Bangalees established a new state through a struggle for liberation.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">From the very beginning, the Bangalees were politically discriminated against in the newly created Pakistan, the two parts of which were thousand miles apart.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Even though the majority of the population of Pakistan was Bangalees, the capital city of the new country was established in Karachi instead of Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The top positions of the state like the Governor General, Prime Minister, members of cabinet were filled in from West Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">During the period of 1947-1971, out of 211 central Ministers, only 95 were Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">During the tenure of Ayub Khan, the number for Bangalee Central Ministers was only 22 out of a total of 62 Central Ministers.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The Bangalee Central Ministers were not given important portfolios.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">In 1958, Martial Law was declared.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Under the Martial Law, all political activities, parliamentary programmes and fundamental rights were suspended.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Even though Awami League won the election in 1970, they were not allowed to form the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">That was why the demand for autonomy within the framework of the statehood of Pakistan turned into a demand for independence for the Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">In a new developing country, in general, most people liked to join the government services.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">If the state created any discrimination or constraint in this process, that would be a violation of fundamental and human rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Bangalees, despite their qualifications, were deprived of appropriate posts in administrative sectors.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The Bangalees were not appointed in important ministries like Defense and Foreign Affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">In this case, only 23% of Bangalees were appointed in first grade positions.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The same discrimination was made to recruit the Bangalees in various public sector entities like the Central Bank, the Railway and Government corporations.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The discrimination was also maintained in the army, the navy and the air force.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The three headquarters for the defense forces and an ammunition factory were in West Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The percentage of Bangalee officers in the military forces was only 5%.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Only 4% of army were Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Although the Bangalee recruitment was a little better in the navy and the air force, it was not significant.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The allocation for defense force was 60% of the total national budget and the lion's share of it was spent in West Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Discrimination was also evident in the case of promotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">That was why the issue of defence was seriously considered in the Six Point Demand by the Awami League.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Because of the neglect of the Central Government, the borders of East Pakistan used to be unprotected.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">This insecurity of East Pakistan became critically evident during the 1965 war.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Even though Pakistan had more foreign exchange earnings, not more than 21% of such earnings were allocated to East Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The province was allocated not more than 34% of foreign aids but Bangalees were to carry the burden of the external loans.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Only 31%, of whatever was imported from abroad was allocated for the development of East Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">As less resources were allocated for the development of East Pakistan, it experienced insignificant progress.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">On the contrary West Pakistan developed through our resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Besides, significant amount of resources were transferred from East to West Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">$2000 million out of export earnings was transferred from East to West during the Pakistani period.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">A symbolic poster used at that time to portray the disparities is presented here.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">A cow is eating grass in East Pakistan (presently Bangladesh) and Pakistanis are milking the cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">It means that the production takes place in East Pakistan but the earnings from that are transferred to West Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Since the birth of Pakistan, Pakistanis had tried to destroy Bangla language, literature and culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">In 1948 they tried to impose Urdu as the state language on the Bangalees by force.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Bangalees were to sacrifice their lives in 1952 to establish the right of Bangla language.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Even though the Constitution of 1956 recognised Bangla as the second State Language of Pakistan, the conspiracy against Bangla did not stop there.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">At that time the name of East Bengal was changed to East Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Attempts to write Bangla in Roman alphabet continued.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">There were boundless restrictions not only over movies, dramas, newspapers and books, but broadcasting Tagore songs, celebrating the Bangla New Year were also forbidden.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Thus, different means were used to hurt the cultural activities of Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Bangalees are fighters.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Bangalees had protested the injustice during the times of the Mughal and the British.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">They never silently tolerated the discriminatory actions of the Pakistan Government.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">With the Language Movement, the Bangalees started anti- Pakistan movements.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">By defeating the Muslim League in 1954, for the first time, Bangalees got a short-lived opportunity to form the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Against the Martial Law of Ayub Khan, the students started anti-Ayub movement through the education movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">In the decade of the 1960s, through literary conferences and cultural movements, anti-Ayub activities were carried on.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">A cultural renaissance started all over the country including Dhaka and Chittagong with the celebration of Bishwa Kabi Rabindranath Tagore's birth centenary.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">At the pressure of the mass movement, Ayub Khan was forced to withdraw the Agartala Conspiracy Case and resign.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The Awami League achieved absolute majority in the election of 1970 under the leadership of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">This absolute victory actually led Bangalees towards independence.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">But the Pakistani rulers started hatching conspiracies delaying to hand over power and playing different games.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">On 25 March in 1971, at midnight, the Pakistani military force all on a sudden attacked and started genocide over unarmed Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Bangabandhu was imprisoned on that night but before being arrested he declared the independence of Bangladesh the same night.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The liberation war started.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
