<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-budh-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.402</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">194</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2314</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">837</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t38">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">To live a pure and sacred life Gautama Buddha advised His followers to abide by some rules and regulations set by Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">These rules, if duly observed make human beings perfect and bring salvation from sufferings decaying the cravings.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Greed, hatred, violence and malice might be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Human beings can earn the qualities of tolerance, non-violence and self-control possessing kindness and compassion to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The world is full of sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Buddhism aims at salvation from all these sufferings following the rules and ways set by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">These directives however, are known as Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Here follows an instance for realizing the meaning and significance of the Precepts : The cultivator grows crops in his field.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Before harvesting the field is well ploughed for cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Then he gets a good harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The Precept is such a field.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">If the field is not well cultivated, no desire is fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Precept is the basic foundation of all religious practices.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">We should concentrate our mind in Precept before all other religious performances.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Now it is clear that Precept is such a stage based on salvation from sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In a nutshell we can realize that Precept is the stair to attain Nibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The Precepts have some stages and are to be observed step by step.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The first step is the Five Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Then follows the Eight and Ten Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">But all of them are not applicable for all.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Five Precepts are compulsory to be observed by the lay-devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Eight Precepts are also for the lay Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The Samaneras and Bhikkhus have to follow the Ten Precepts regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">We have learnt about Five Precepts previously.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Now let us discuss about the Eight Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The Eight Precepts is the second step including Five Precepts and three more Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Five Precepts may commonly be observed in daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">But the Eight Precepts are not so easy to the lay people to observe regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">They are observed in some particular days.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The observing days of the Eight Precepts are the new moon, the eighth day of every lunar fortnight and the full moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Those who observe the Eight Precepts have to starve in those days.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The observing days of the Eight Precepts are called the Uposatha days or the days of fasting and the observers are known as Uposathikas.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">There are some rules to accept the Uposatha Silas i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">On the Uposatha day the observers put on clean cloths and go to the monastery with flowers and offering materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">They put all that brought by them before the image of the Buddha and take part in the prayer before the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Thereafter they take seats in front of the monks with folded hands for prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">They pay their tribute to the Triple- gems and pray for Eight Precepts from the monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Venerable oh monk, pay attention please, I do pray for Uposathasilam of Eight fold virtues with refuge to the Triple-gems.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Please, offer me the Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">A second time, venerable oh monk, I do pray for Uposathasilam of Eightfold , virtues with refuge to the Triple-gems.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Please offer me the-Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">A third time, venerable oh monk, I do pray for Uposathasilam of Eightfold virtues with refuge to the Triple-gems.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Please offer me the Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">To offer Precepts, the Bhikkhu will utter yamaham vadami tam vadetha i.e. follow me what I say.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The lay devotee then say, Ama bhante, i.e. yes, I follow.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">With this consent the Bhikkhu will start offering the Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The followers will recite them accordingly with right and distinct pronunciation.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">I undertake the Precept to abstain from killing.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">I undertake the Precept to abstain from stealing.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">I undertake the Precept to abstain from sexual misconduct.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">I undertake the Precept to abstain from telling lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">I undertake the Precept to abstain from taking intoxicants.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">I undertake the Precept to abstain from having meals in the afternoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">I undertake the Precept to abstain from enjoying dances, songs and music, applying cosmetics and putting on valuable ornaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">I undertake the Precept to abstain from lying on valuable high seats.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Do follow the Uposathasilam (Eight Precepts) of Eight-fold virtues carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The lay devotee should say, Ama bhante, i.e. yes, I follow.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Now the Bhikkhu will recite a few Sutras for the welfare of the laity.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Nothing should be taken thereafter excepting drinks only.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">We should keep it in mind that fasting is not enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Each and every Precept should be followed properly with great care.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">It is rather difficult to observe the Eight Precepts staying with the family members.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">So they should stay at the monastery listening to the ritual advice of the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Every Uposathika of course, can take part on religious discussions and recitation from the holy Tripitaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The Uposathika must refrain from any kind of activities that hamper the practice of the Eight Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The Uposathikas have to observe some duties necessary for them are as follows:</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The Uposathika should neither harm nor cause to harm anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">They should neither oppress nor cause to oppress the other beings or animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">They should neither outrage nor cause to outrage the others.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">They should not misbehave with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They should not foster malice for the prosperity and appreciation of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">They should never tell lies.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">They should avoid the discussion on family affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">They should listen to the religious discussions attentively.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">They should take part on religious discussions.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They should keep them away from household affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">They should have no feelings of sensitivity.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">They should exercise control in walking, visualizing and speaking.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Life is the source of a living being.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">As I have the affection to life, so have it to all living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It is a great sin to destroy the life of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Therefore, we should have to abstain from killing the animals larger or smaller in size, ferocious or inoffensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Nobody should be encouraged for killing.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">We should always be kind to all living beings and wish their happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Thus we undertake Precept of non-violence.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">To take anything without the consent of the owner is stealing.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">It is a great sin to take away anything, which is not given.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">We should neither do such a sinful act nor encourage others to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Thus we undertake the teaching of the Precept that we should not wish the loss or cause to loss of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Refraining from sexual desire is known as Brahmacariya.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">So should we abstain from such sexual desire showing respect to the women-folk.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">We should never cast any evil look upon anybody nor insist others on doing so thus we undertake the teaching of this Precept.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">We should never tell lies even for jokes.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Rude behaviour with others should be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Nobody should be encouraged to speak ill of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">This is the teaching of the Precept that we undertake.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">We should refrain from taking alcohols made of rice and cakes and five kinds of wine made of fruit juice along with arrak, ganja etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Even we should never encourage anybody to take them.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This is the teaching of this Precept.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Having meals after 12 A.M. is called supper.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The Uposathikas cannot have their meals from 12 A.M. till the next sunrise.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Other than hard food milk, barley, tea mixed with milk and fruits are also prohibited to take.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">They are only allowed to drink water and some other light drinks.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">So we undertake the teaching of this Precept to abstain from having the supper.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">To witness dances and hearing the songs even enjoying ox fighting, wrestling and the magic show are strictly prohibited for the Uposathikas (lay devotees).</sent>
				<sent id ="106">So should we undertake the Precept of this Precept to abstain from using cosmetics and decorating with costly dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">I do undertake the teaching of the Precept of abstaining from lying on luxurious and high bed-stead's.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">There are so many good-effects of observing the Eight Precepts (Uposatha silas).</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The restless mind becomes peaceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It dispels committing crimes and mental anxieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The mind is purified with lot of virtues concentrating in truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">It leads us to be kind- hearted to all living-beings developing the power of tolerance and self control.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Greed, ill desires and the tendency of evil doings are reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Violence and mental disposition are also removed by practicing Uposathasilam (the Eight Precepts).</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Human being is controlled by habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Fasting for four days a month is possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">That is, man can practice to live a holy life at least for these four days.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Gradually the power of fasting enables man to live an honest life for eight days, sixteen days, a month even a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">In this way, everybody becomes honest and virtuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The honest habit thus will be a permanent natural quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">By no means other person can allure the devotee to become dishonest once again.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The practice of the Eight Precepts brings more moral effects to the observer.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Those who practice the Eight Precepts, always remain fearless, live a disciplined life, become happy forever and can engage themselves in meditation without anxiety.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The contemplation up rises the performer to Samadhi for attaining wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Morality, wisdom and concentration in a body is the first step to get rid of sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Thus the performer of the Eight Precepts can feel the happiness of Nibbana dedicating himself to the path of Dhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Uposatha Silas (the Eight Precepts) possess numerous qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The qualities of the sun and the moon are uncountable.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The earth is meaningless in absence of the sun and the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Where as the practice of the Uposatha Silas is much more effective than their qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">This practice is further more valuable than the treasures that lie at the bottom of the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The smell of the Eight Precepts is much sweeter than the smell of the flowers and the musk of the deer.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The sweet smell of both the wind and the musk flows towards the direction of the wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">On the other hand, the sweet smell of the Precepts flows in all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The worldly fragrance is transitory but the fragrance of the Precepts is everlasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Once the Buddha described an incident of His previous life to show the merits of the Eight Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The story is as follows: Once Bodhisattva was born in a poor family.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">At that time, an honest richman lived at Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He was as wealthy as kind.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">He had much feeling for the sufferings of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">He always tried his best to set them free from sorrows and sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">All the members of his family used to observe Five and Eight Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">So his family was well known as the holy family.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Bodhisattva at that time had to work in others house for his livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Once he went to the richman for job.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The master of the house said to him, All the members of my family along with the man and maid servants observe the Uposatha Silas.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">If you can observe it you will get a job.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Bodhisattva had been virtuous enough from previous to the recent life.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">How could he deny the proposal who had the influence of the Precepts?</sent>
				<sent id ="150">He became cheerful to hear the name of Precepts and said, Yes my master, I must do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Bodhisattva engaged himself in the job and performed his duties diligently.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">He always thought of his master to satisfy him.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It was the Uposatha day.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">But Bodhisattva was not aware of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">He went to do his duty early in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Meanwhile the master took Uposathasilam along with all the members of his family including the man and maid servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">In the evening all of them were absorbed in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">In the meantime, Bodhisattva came, but found none in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The house was quite silent.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">He was unfed for the whole day.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He felt too much, hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">A maid servant saw him and brought food to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">What is the reason behind it?</sent>
				<sent id ="164">He wanted to know the fact from the maid servant.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">She said, It. is Uposatha day to day.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Everybody is fasting to observe Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">On hearing this his hunger vanished.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">He too thought of observing the Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He stood up without having meals.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">He went to the master and said, Sir, I am sorry I did not know that to-day is the day of fasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">So I could not observe it in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Can I observe the day since now?</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The master said, The result will be half if you observe it for half a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">It is enough- said, Bodhisattva and he began to observe the Precepts for the rest of the time by fasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He became tired and hungry by doing hard labour all day long.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Yet he determined to observe Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">As the night fell deep Bodhisattva felt pain in his stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The pain began to increase gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He groaned and groaned with unbearable pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The master heard it and he came with ghee, butter and molasses mixed with honey.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He gave all these to Bodhisattva, asked him to take them.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">But he took none and said, Oh my master, let my life be gone, yet I shall not break the Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">In the-early morning the king of Beneras went out for a morning walk.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">He was passing near the house of the rich-man.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Bodhisattva saw a handsome personality standing a bit away from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He could recognise the king and his heart was full of joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He thought, Were I king in my next life.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">He died as soon as he thought it.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The craving that created just at the moment of death was fulfilled in the next life.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">After death Bodhisattva was born as the prince of Beneras and was named as Udaya kumara.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">From this tale of Bodhisattva, we come to realize the good effects of the Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">This is the real teaching of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The Buddha proclaimed that everybody might be great in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">So we should remember this noble teaching of the Buddha throughout our life.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
