<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-budh-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.474</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">179</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2441</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">861</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t41">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">To perform religious rites the monks stay in a particular place during the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">It is known as Varsavasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">As the Buddha started to admonish His messages first the Bhikkhus did not stay in a particular place during the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">They used to advise the people traveling to different places.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">According to the Buddha's advice they propagate the Dhamma (doctrine) traveling one country to another on foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The then India was a vast country.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">But the ascetics of the other faiths stayed in particular places during the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">For this reason the general mass did not like such practice of the monks and used to criticize them.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">At that time the Buddha was residing at the Venuvana vicar of Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">He came across the criticism on the traveling of the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">He then asked all the Bhikkhus and said, Oh Bhikkhus, do I permit you to observe the Varsavasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The Bhikkhus then said to the Buddha, Oh lord, when do we observe Varsavasa?</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The Buddha said in reply, Do I permit you to observe Varsavasa during the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Since then the system of observing Varsavasa started.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The Mahavagga is a part and parcel of the Vinaya Pitaka of the Tripitaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Tile Vinaya consists of the rules and regulations to be observed by the Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Varsavasa is widely described in the Mahavagga.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">In the Vinaya, the year is divided into four seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The Bengali months Chaitra, Vaisakha and Jaistha are included in the Summer, Ashar, Sravan and Bhadra are in the Rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Aswin, Kartik and Agrahayan are in the Autumn and finally Poush, Magh and Falgun are taken in the Winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The members of the Bhikkhu Sangha observe the Varsavasa from the full-moon day of Ashar to the full-moon day of Aswin.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">During the period the monks, are not allowed to move extensively.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Staying in a particular place they pass their time in studies, teachings, delivering religious sermons and meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">For any purpose if they go for a visit anywhere they return before dawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The Varsavasa must not be violated without necessity for the Sangha or any other social emergency.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The residence may be left for the service to the Bhikkhus and Bhikkhunis, Samaneras or Samaneries and the sick laities.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The residence may be left for advising the Bhikkhus and Bhikkhunis who have lost their faith in the Buddhasasana (Buddha's doctrine).</sent>
				<sent id ="28">If any lay devotee either man or woman offers a new-built monastery to the Sangha, the Bhikkhu may leave the residence.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">For this purpose he may leave residence for far of places up to a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">To look after the sick Bhikkhu or Bhikkhuni, Samanera or Samaneri, the resident Bhikkhu may leave the monastery for a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">If any suspicion or misbelief arises anywhere the Bhikkhu may go there for its removal.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The Bhikkhu is allowed to go for the religious performance of Parivasa kamma, Ahabana kamma, Pabbajja kamma and Sahaya kamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Besides these, if there happens any disturbance of the wild animals, snakes, thieves or decoits the Bhikkhu may leave the residence.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Again if the residence is destroyed by fire, flood water or cyclone, the resident Bhikkhu may leave the place.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Moreover, the Bhikkhu is allowed to leave the vihara if the laities are quarrelling or controversing.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The aforesaid places built by the lay devotees for charity, the Bhikkhus may break the Varsavasa if they are invited.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">For causes other than the above, the Varsavasa cannot be violated.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The Bhikkhus, in the early stage observed the Varsavasa under the open sky or in the hole of trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The Buddha prohibitted not to do so and advised them again and again to observe the Varsavasa in the proper places.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">He further permitted the Bhikkhus to observe it in the places where the laities live around.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Where there is no obstruction of studies and meditation is the better place to observe Varsavasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">In the Vinaya it is found that Urubela, Rajagriha, Nalanda, Pataliputra, Sravasti, Saket and Ujjayini were the suitable places to observe the Varsavasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Among the important Viharas (monasteries), Jetavana, Rajakaram, Amravana, Anjanvana, Balukaram, Venuvana, Ghositaram, Patikaram, Nigrodharam etc. were noteworthy for Varsavasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">It is thus observed that, the Bhikkhus and Bikkhunis liked to select undisturbed places for Varsavasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The Varsavasa begins from the full-moon of Ashar ending in the full-moon of Aswin.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Some important incidents of the Buddha's life took place on the full-moon day of Ashar.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The Buddha as Siddhartha got into His mother's womb and renounced the palace in quest of supreme knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Soon after His attainment of supreme knowledge He proclaimed Dhammacakka (Wheel of law) in this full-moon, day at Sarnath.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">To the Buddhist this is one of the most virtuous days for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The Varsavasa starts from this very full-moon for the next three months keeping the observers absorbed in meditation and religious studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">So the Varsavasa is the proper time of promising for both the Bhikkhus and the lay devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The mind becomes purified by practising meditation and studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Pure mind brings happiness in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">These holy practices help to attain Sotapatti, Sakridagami, Anagami and Arahanthood.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Many of the Bhikkhus attain Arahanthood absorbing themselves into deep meditation enabling to achieve Nibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">It is easy to study at home during the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">In this period the people finish their cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">They can go nowhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Traveling in the country is also impossible.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">So this is high time for religious studies and discussions.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">They get ample time to listen to the religious sermons from the Bhikkhus residing in the respective monasteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">As the Bhikkhus can go nowhere during Varsavasa, it is right time to listen to the religious discussions from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">They do not go far off places.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">So it is easier for them to explain the Dhamma mindfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The earth remains cool during this period.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">So this is a high time for studies and meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The full-moon of Aswin is known to us as the Pabarana.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Kathinacivara dana (Yellow robe offering-ceremony) comes just after Varsavasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">These celebarations are closely related to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Kathinacivara dana cannot be held if any Bhikkhu does not observe Varsavasa in any monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">It is an important religious function for the Bhikkhus to observe.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Because, the age of the monk and nuns (Bhikkhus and Bhikkhunis) is counted from the month of Varsavasa observed by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The religious ages of the monks and the nuns are counted by the number of Varsavasa observed by them individually.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Besides, it bears many other importance's.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">At the time of introducing the new systems, the Buddha brought reformation of the old ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Thereafter, the Buddha prohibitted the Bhikkhus to observe Varsavasa in those places.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">It was more beneficial to them to observe it in the desolated places absorbing themselves in studies and meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Besides, the resident Bhikkhus could explain the Dhamma on the days of full-moon, the new moon and the eighth days of the lunar fortnight.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The laities could assemble there to listen to the religious sermons explained by the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The lay devotees from all directions often came to the Buddha to meet Him wherever He resided.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">He satisfied them explaining His doctrine.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Exactly the devotees attended to listen to the religious sermons from the Bhikkhus wherever they also stayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">In this way, their spiritual knowledge developed and contented.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The Buddha spent His last Varsavasa at the village of Belur of Vaisali.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The Bhikkhu Sangha observed their Varsavasa at convenient places around Vaisali.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The Buddha was seriously ill during this Varsavasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">But by virtue of His unparallel wisdom His illness retarded.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Here He desired to meet the Bhikkhu sangha for the last time.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">In the mean time He became fully cured by dint of His profound mental power.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">During the last Varsavasa He performed meditation to get relief of sufferings caused by illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The Buddha said, It keeps my body active when I perform the Nirodha Samadhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">It means the meditation during Varsavasa reduces the vigorous sufferings from diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The word Uposatha means fasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">It is customary to perform fasting on the days of every full-moon, New moon and the -eighth day of the lunar fortnight.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">To take meals three times a day is a regular habit of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">By fasting from time to time, we can realize the necessity of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">So it seems to all that fasting is the best Performance of Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The Buddha had His meals moderately in due time.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">He never took excess food He always advised His disciples to have their meals moderately in time.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">In the early stage the Buddha took meals at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">It is found in the Kitagiri sutra of the Mahijjma Nikaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">In the sutra the Buddha admonished, Oh Bhikkhus, I have given up taking meals at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It has reduced my illness and uneasiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">You too give up having meals at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It will reduce your sufferings from sickness and uneasiness bringing peace of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Since then, the system of having meals before twelve O'clock started.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In this way, the lay devotees also began to take their meals before 12 -O clock on the Uposatha days.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Basically though the Uposatha is derived from fasting, it has some other meanings to the Buddhists bearing a great significance.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The days of the New moon, the eighth day of the lunar fortnight and the full-moon are known as the Uposatha days.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Though the lay devotees generally observe the Five Precepts, they observe Eight Precepts on those days too.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Observance of the Five Precepts is the regular duty for the lay devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The lay devotees who observe the Eight Precepts are known as the Uposathikas.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The duties of the observers of the Eight Precepts have been indicated in the Anguttara Nikaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The Buddha defined the Eight Precepts as the salvation from all kinds of sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In fact, the Uposatha does not mean fasting only.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Purification of mind is the real aim of the devotees who observe the Uposatha Silas.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The decay of cravings is possible by purifying the mind with these Eight Precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The ascetic practice aims at salvation from sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Once the Buddha was staying on the mountain of Gridhrakuta of Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The general people also assembled there to listen to the religious discussions.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">King Bimbisara while meditating in desolated place thought of the performances.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He was then the most devoted lay disciple of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">I think, it will be helpful to the people if the Bhikkhus assemble in particular places to discuss on religious topics and performances.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Thus the system of Uposatha came into being.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Following the systems the lay Buddhists all over the world observe the Uposatha till date.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">On the Uposatha days they practice the Precepts and take part in charity.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The virtues earned by performing the Uposatha are unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">A servant of Anathapindika went to a far off place for cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">On return in the evening he found all the members of the family observe the Uposatha by fasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">He also took part in performing the Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Due to fasting he suffered from severe pain at the dead of night and died.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Pratijagara Uposatha : To observe the Eight Precepts carefully for whole time is called Pratijagara Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The Uposathika has to abide by all the rules strictly excepting the sleep at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Gopala Uposatha : The Uposatha observer who always thinks over food, poverty and pecuniary distress excluding the religious performance is called Gopala Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">They pass their days thinking over poverty and distress like a cow-man.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">It is a low standard Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Nirgrantha Uposatha : Nirgrantha means knotless or nude.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">During the Buddhas period there lived some nude mendicants.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">They observed a kind of Uposatha known as Nirgrantha Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">They took the meals partially and refrain themselves from killing the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Arya Uposatha : Arya means the best.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">It is the best type of Uposatha that introduced by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The disciples of the Buddha observe this Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">While observing this Uposatha the devotees give up all the worldly pleasures.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">They engage themselves meditating in the recollection of the Buddha, the Dhamma, the Precepts and the loving kindness to all living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">They refrain themselves from killing the animals, stealing and sexual misconduct.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The laities who observe the Uposatha never take ganja, wine, opium, churus, bhang etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">They are not addicted to smoking, because it is injurious to health.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Drinking wine opposes right thinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Intoxication destroys human knowledge and consciousness.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">They hardly realize the difference between good and evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The Buddha mentioned the addiction to any kind of intoxicants causes a great loss to human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">So should we remember this advice of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The Arya Uposathikas give up all kinds of intoxicants.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">They always keep themselves away form enjoying dances, songs, music etc. and observe the Precepts with great devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">They further give up wearing the garlands, luxury, cosmetics etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">They never have their meals at night and never sit or lie on high seats or beds.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Because lying on luxurious beds they cannot concentrate their minds in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It causes a great hindrance in observing the Uposatha in a proper way.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">So everybody of us should observe the Arya Uposatha with devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Observing the Uposatha every day from the full-moon of Ashara till the full-moon of Aswin is called Pratihariya Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">To observe Uposatha every day for a month starting from full-moon of Aswin till the full-moon of Kartika is an interim Pratihariya Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">To observe any one of the aforesaid Pratihariya Uposatha is virtuous to the observers.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">All these are known as Pratihariya Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">In the Tripitaka it has been explained to bear good results by observing the Uposatha in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It is said here that the charming moonlight and the sunshine are not as virtuous as the virtues of observing the Uposatha.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The pearls, the gems and the jewels of the earth and the sea are not as significant as the Uposatha bears.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Even the wealth of the deities is not so splendid as it is.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The fragrance of the heaven and the wealth of the earth are perishable.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">But the fragrance of Uposatha is permanent, everlasting and ever peaceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Indra, the king of heaven of Tavatimsa once said to the deities.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The more you try to earn virtues, the more you have to observe the Pratijagara or Pratiharya Uposathas.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Thus lead your life in the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">We know that the deities are not free from sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">They too possess anger, ignorance and hatred.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">But they look over the human virtues and vices.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Indra, the king of heaven admires them too.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The compassionate Buddha introduced these Uposatha Silas to us to observe.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">So we should observe the Uposatha Silas (Eight Precepts) as properly as possible.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
