<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-budh-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.532</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">349</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4000</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1206</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t43">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Thera and Theri mean old man and old woman respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">But in Buddhist literature Thera is called the monks that are old in wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">They may not be Thera or Theri those who only have observed the life of monks or nuns for several years.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">To be a Thera or a Theri mere age is not the factor which may be considered.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">On the other hand one can not be Thera or Theri being of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">He or she needs to be a monk or nun leaving worldly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Then he or she has to quench his or her thirst by worshipping.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">There are mentioned a number of Thera-Theri's name in Buddhist literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Now we shall know a few biographies of Thera, Theries and some Buddhist personalities.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">You will also know some of householder Buddhists that took their place in history by dint of hard perseverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Everybody can be Thera-Theri and distinguished Buddhist by dint of acquiring virtue and worshipping eternally.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">One can be virtuous and wise scholar like them.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">But it needs perseverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">This was told by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The sentence that uttered by the Buddha never goes in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Mahakassapa was the first Mahasavaka of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">By dint of virtuous deeds of his many previous births, once he took birth in Brahmaloka.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Later he took birth at the village Mahatirtha Brahmin under Magadha kingdom at the period of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The name of his father was Kapil Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Pipphali Manava was his family name.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Gradually Pipphali Manava grew older and got married.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The name of his wife was Vadra Kapilani.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">She was born in the race of Kosiya Brahmin at Sagal Nagar in the kingdom of Madra.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">She was paragon of beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Both of them were married by dint of confinement of former existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">But they were indifferent to worldly life.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Those who take birth from Brahmaloka they do not have attraction to the worldly enjoyment.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">So were Pipphali Manava and Vadra Kapilani.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Though they lived a family life, they lived a Brahmacarya life.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">After the death of his father, Pipphali Manava got a vast wealth by inheritance.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">But he was not satisfied with the riches.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">He determined to leave home.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">But his wife prevented.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Hearing that her husband will leave home she too wanted to leave home.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The husband said, We should not leave home together.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">People will think, none of the husband and wife agreed to leave each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">This idea will be a crime for them and we shall also commit a sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Kapilani then said, You are true.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">We shall not take the same way, you are a male.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">So you start to go by the right way.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">I am a female.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">I should go by the left side.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">So saying she made obeisance to her husband by going round him three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Then she took the left way, Pipphali Manava took the right way.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Just that moment happened an earthquake and there was a terrible sound in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Gautama Buddha was then at Gandhakutir of Venuvana.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">He felt a sudden earthquake and heard a terrible sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Then he could realize that the reason of the earthquake was for separation between husband and wife and for their accomplishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">He also knew that both of them left home for the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Then Buddha came out of the hut saying nothing to anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">By walking he came far away and sat lotus-like seat under a banyan tree between Rajagriha and Nalanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Then the surrounding area became enlightened by his heavenly light.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Pipphali Manava appeared there.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Finding Buddha from distance his mind overflowed with regard.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">He appeared before the Buddha and adoring him said, Bhante, Bhagwan, you are my teacher, I am your disciple.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Buddha then praised the qualities of Pipphali Manava.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Then he ordained him as a Bhikkhu by uttering Tisarana.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">After becoming monk he was named Mahakassapa.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Buddha proceeded to Venuvana with Mahakassapa.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">After poceeding some way Buddha wanted to take rest under a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">In a hurry Mahakassapa spread his own robe folding four times and requested Buddha to sit on.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Buddha said, Kassapa, your robe is very soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Kassapa thought, as the master told the robe was soft so he would not object to put on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">So Kassapa requested, Bhante, Bhagwan, you put on this robe.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The master said, Then what will you wear?</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Kassapa said, Lord, I will cover my body if I have your worn cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Then they exchanged their robes.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Buddha put on the robe of Kassapa and Kassapa put on the robe of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">After that Mahakassapa attained Arahatta within eight days only.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Buddha praised to the monks about the infinite power of Mahakassapa.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The monks placed Mahakassapa to the post of Agramahasavaka finding his infinite power.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">On the other hand, Vadra Kapilani received initiation from Mahapajapati Gotami.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">After the Mahaparinibbana of Gautama Buddha, Mahakassapa Thera was elected the president unanimously at the first Conference.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The Bhikkhu Sangha present in the meeting entrusted Mahakassapa to select the qualified monks for the Conference.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Not only that he was also entrusted to nominate Bhikkhus who were capable to interrogate matters relating to the Vinaya and (Sutta) Pitakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Mahakassapa was one of the best disciples of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">He was the wisest, scholar and virtuous monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">After having Mahaparinibbana of the Buddha the Malla kings tried their best to fire the cremation place, but all of their efforts were in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">During the period of the Buddha, the prince of Licchavi was Mahalikumar.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">He married the paragan of beauty princess Supravasa of the king Koliya.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Both Mahali Kumar and Supravasa were very pious.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The greatest fortune maker Sivali was born to this pious parents house.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">After Supravasa had conceived, the economic condition of the family developed more than before.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Even if Supravasa touched the seeds for sowing the production were increased manifold.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">But by dint of the sin committed by in the past life by Supravasa, she had to bear pains of child-birth for seven years.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Not only that but also she had to feel severe pain at the time of delivery for seven days too.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Even she thought that she would not live more.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">So she said to her husband, I want to bestow before my death.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">You please tell about my desire to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Mahalikumar, her husband told everything to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Buddha then foreseen that a virtuous great man was coming to enlighten the house of Supravasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">He then blessed, let Supravasa give a safe birth and wished her to be happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Supravasa gave birth a beautiful son before Mahalikumar came back home by being blessed by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Then Supravasa made a great gift for seven days.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">As the virtuous child took his birth making cool all hearts he was named Sivali.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">At early age Sivalikumar entered into the order of the Sanbha under Sariputta Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">At the time of cutting hair before giving the robes, Sariputta told him to remember about his sufferings for seven years in the mother's womb.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Sivali listened to the advice of the Thera with great attention and soon attained the Arahatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">In the past life Sivali went to listen to the religious speech to the Padumuttar Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">At that time Padumuttar Buddha was giving the title Labhi Settho to one of his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Then he prayed to the Buddha with folding the hands, Bhante, I pray the post Labhi Settho.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Buddha said, You will attain the Labhi Settho during the time of Gautama Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">From that time after many births he obtained the post prayed for and was renowned as Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The word Labhi Settho means one who is the best of all attainers, i.e. he will gain whatever he likes.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">At the previous lives Sivali did many good deeds, so he could gain wherever he liked to gain anything at the Sivali-birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The Buddhists still believe that none would be needy if he worships Sivali and recites the Sivali Parittana Sutta.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">After attaining the Arahatta Sivali Thera recited the following verse (Gatha) : I have destroyed dignity and pride after searching wisdom and immunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">I have reached the destination for which I entered the hut.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Many of the disciples of the Buddha attained the power of prosperity (Riddhi).</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Riddhi means to show supernatural power by dint of religious obstruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Those who gain this power can make impossible to possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">This power of prosperity attained many of the disciples of the Buddha, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Theri Utpalabanna was the best of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">But she did not gain this power of prosperity in one life.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">She had to meditate many past lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">She had to attain virtues for many births.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Now we shall tell about the previous life of the great virtuous lady Utpalabanna.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">During the period of Padurnuttar Buddha Utpalabanna took birth in a respectable family of Hangsabati Nagar.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">From her childhood she was virtuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">She often used to go to the monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">After she had gone to the monastery, she saw that Padumuttar Buddha offered a nun the place of best Riddhimati.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Finding this Utpalabanna desired herself to be the best Riddhimati.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Then Utpalabanna worshipped highly to Padumuttar Buddha and his disciples for a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">She conveyed her best regard to Buddha and then prayed to him for the best Riddhimati.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Padumuttar Buddha blessed Utpalabanna.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">After that Utpalabanna attained virtues for many births and at last she was born in Sravasti during the period of Gautama Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Her father's name was Tatratya Setthi.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Setthi means a great rich man.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He named his daughter Utpalabanna.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Utpal means blue lotus.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">As her colour was like blue lotus she was named Utpalabanna.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Not only in beauty but also in virtue she was second to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Gradually Utpalabanna was grown up.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It was spread out all over about her virtue, and beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Attracting by her virtue and beauty many kings, maharajas and rich men from different provinces sent proposals to marry her.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The Setthi fell in a great danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">If he made marry her daughter with a king, another king would be dissatisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The number of enemies would increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Beyond this, there might be quarrel among the candidates before the marriage ceremony.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">So, for escaping from this danger he felt to find out an alternative ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Then he said to his daughter, Can you be a nun?</sent>
				<sent id ="142">By dint of virtue of her previous life, she became very glad to hear the word nun and said, Yes father, I am ready.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The Setthi became glad and he took Utpalabanna with him to the nuns.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The nuns accepted her in the order of the Nuns.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">After this Utpalabanna, was offered the responsibility of the house of the worshippers.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Later, by dint of meditation she attained heavenly (spiritual) vision and supernatural knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Then she attained Arahatta and the power of prosperity.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Later, the Buddha offered Utpalabanna the seat of the best of all in the power of prosperity in the Conference of Sangha at Jetavana.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Utpalabanna recited some verses after having a thought of great happiness-and fulfillment of meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The memory of the past life is in my possession.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">I have attained the knowledge to read the mind of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">I have got the spiritual vision and supernatural knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">I have attained power of prosperity.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">I am free from addiction.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">I am at home in six fold experience.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">I have fulfilled the desire of the Great Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">When Mara (enemy) came to disturb Utpalabanna at Shasakakunja, she told, You would not be able to harm me in the least.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">What will you do alone?</sent>
				<sent id ="159">At once I can enter in your body invisibly.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">I am standing between your pair of eyebrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">But you have no power to feel my existence?</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Patachara was born in a respectable family in Hangsabati Nagar during the period of Padumuttar Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">She was devoted to religion from her early life.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">One day she went to the monastery to listen to the preaching of the Buddha while she was grown up.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">At the time of listening religious speech she saw, Buddha conferred the title Vinaydhar on a nun.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Among the nuns those who were experienced in the rules of the Sangha they would be conveyed this place.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Seeing a respectable place offered to a nun, Patachara desired to gain this place, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Hoping to obtain this rare position Patachara engaged herself in virtuous deeds throughout her life.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">After that Patachara took birth in the world for several times.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Every time she gathered virtues with her virtuous works.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Thus she lived holy life for twenty thousand years.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In one of her past lives she built a monastery and offered to the Bhikkhu Sangha for their dwelling.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">By dint of infinite virtues she took birth in the race of gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">During the period of Gautama Buddha, Patachara was born in the royal Treasurer's house of Sravasti Nagar.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">She became grown up day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">She became adorned with matchless beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Thus Patachara became marriageable.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">But she married a poor- young man of her choice against the will of her father.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Then she left her father's house and lived in another village with her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Patachara became pregnant.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Then she felt repentant.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">She could realize her own fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">One day she told her husband, Let us go to my fathers house.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The husband delayed saying, Well go today, tomorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Patachara realized that her husband will not take her to her father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">So one day in the absence of her husband she started for father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">At the time of leaving she told neighbours, 'I am going to my father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Please tell this to my husband when he comes back.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Coming back home the husband saw that her wife was not in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Getting the news from the neighbours he was repentant.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">He thought, the helpless condition of the rich-daughter Patachara was only for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Then the husband hurriedly followed her.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">On the half way the husband met his wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">By this time .</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Patachara gave birth to a male child on the way.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Patachara again went back their home with her husband and the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Patachara again became pregnant.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">This time she started for her father's house with her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">On the way at the dead of night Patachara felt pain of childbirth.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Then heavy storm began to flow.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The lightning was startled every now and then.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">It started terrible thundering.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Later it started hail-storm vehemently.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Patachara was a daughter of a rich man.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">She never fell on such a trouble.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Patachara told her husband to take her to a place where there is no storm or rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">On the stormy night Patachara gave birth to another son.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">She passed whole night waiting for her husband with the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">In the morning she found her husband dead and bewailed for loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Finding no other way Patachara started for her father's house with her two kids.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">There was a river in front.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The river-water increased due to heavy rainfall in the whole night.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Patachara sensed a danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">But she had to go.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Standing on the bank of the river she thought, it was impossible to across the river with her two babies at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">So she left the elder son on this bank and accrossed the river with the new born.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">On the opposite bank of the river she kept the little child wrapping on a piece of cloth and again started for the other bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">When she had reached the middle of the river she found a hawk flying in the sky with her suckling-child.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Patachara clapped many times to threat the hawk .</sent>
				<sent id ="220">But it was fruitless.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The hawk went far away with the baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The elder child, hearing the voice of his mother thought that she was calling him.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Then he jumped to the river and drowned at the moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Losing both the child Patachara reached Sravasti weeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Arriving here she came to know that her parents and brothers also died in the previous night.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Patachara could not bear grief and she then walked about the way overwhelmed with grief.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">She could not realize that her worn clothes had been opened from her body.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">She became mad and arrived in front of the Jetavana garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">By this time Gautama Buddha was initiating his devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Some people were throwing stones at Patachara.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Gautama Buddha told the people to bring her before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Patachara was taken to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Then the Buddha said, Sister, let your memories come back.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Being blessed by the Buddha Patachara recovered her senses.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Then she saw that she had no clothes in her body.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Being ashamed she sat down hurriedly on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Then someone helped her with a cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Patachara then sat down on the foot of the Buddha and said, Bhagwan, please save me.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Patachara told the Buddha everything that happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The Buddha consoled and advised her and said, Patachara, it is not possible to get back what you have lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">You had to cry even in the past life for several times like this life.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">You had shed tears more than the water of four oceans.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">So don't spoil your life by mourning'.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Patachara became calm listening to the advice of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">She attained Sotapatti Phal on listening to the advice of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The Buddha initiated her into Bhikkhuni Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">At last she attained Arahatta by absorbing herself on meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">One evening, while I was washing my legs I noticed that water flows downwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Finding this I pacified my mind as a well bred horse receives its training.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Then I entered in the monastery with a candle.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Later I sat upon the stage looking at the bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">I put out the candle.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">The trouble of my heart put out as the candle too.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Jivaka's mother's name was Shalavati.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">It is said that the mother Shalavati threw Jivaka in the dustbin after he was born.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">By this time prince Abhoy, the son of king Bimbisara was passing by this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">He saw some crows were crowing surrounding something.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">He asked the people and knew that the crows were crying surrounding a new-born child.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">He asked, Is the baby alive?</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The people said, Yes it is alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Then he took the baby and gave it to the midwives.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">As the child was alive it was named Jivaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">He was growing up in the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Thus he became sixteen years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">If there happened any quarrel among the fellows the princes laughed at him calling the orphan.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">One day Jivaka asked the prince Abhoy, Deva, who is my mother and who is my father?</sent>
				<sent id ="267">The prince Abhoy said, Son!</sent>
				<sent id ="268">I don't know who is your mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">But I brought you up.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">So I am your father.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Jivaka understood, his life would not pass by this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Though he was growing up in the palace he had no right to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">He had to stand on his own foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">One day Jivaka left the palace saying nothing to anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Once he arrived at Taxila.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">At that time there lived a well-known physician at Taxila.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Jivaka appeared before and said, Teacher, I want to study medical science under you.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">But I have no ability to pay you any money.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">I shall be ever grateful to you if you teach me.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Being satisfied at his word the teacher began to teach him.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Jivaka also started learning very attentively.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Seven years passed.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Jivaka attained deep knowledge in medical science.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">One day he asked the teacher, Sir, have I finished my lessons?</sent>
				<sent id ="285">After four days Jivaka told the teacher, Sir, I have not found any leaf or plant that will not need as medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The teacher was very glad at Jivakas reply and said, You have completed your lesson.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">This is enough for your livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">So saying the teacher permitted Jivaka to go back his home.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">He gave Jivaka traveling expenses too.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">On the way to Magadha, after arriving at Saketa Nagar, all his money was expended.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Jivaka thought, I need traveling expenses.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">After enquiry he was informed that the wife of a Setthi of Saket had been suffering from head-ache for seven years.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Many physicians tried but none could cure her disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Jivaka went to the house of that richman.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The wife of Setthi came round after Jivaka's treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">The richman gave Jivaka sufficient money and servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">He also gave him horses to carry those wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Then Jivaka came back to Magadha to stay with Abhoy.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">At that time king Bimbisara was attacked by fistula disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">King Bimbisara came round very soon after having treatment from Jivaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">The king became happy and gave him plenty of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">The king appointed Jivaka as royal physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">He also cured many rich men of Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">He cured king Pradyut of Ujjayani from a complicated disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Gradually his fame spread out all around as a famous physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Jivaka was initiated himself into the Buddhism after twenty years of Tathagata's attaining the supreme Enlightenment.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Once the Buddha became ill.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">He came round at the treatment of Jivaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">From that time Jivaka was the permanent physician of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Not only that he treated the Bhikkhu Sangha too.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Once there broke out leprosy and leucoderma in Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The patients began to come to Jivaka in groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">In fact, Jivaka was the house-physician of king Bimbisara and the permanent physician of the Buddha and the Bhikkhu Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">He had no time to attend others.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">So he sent them back without treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Then they thought, Jivaka would be compelled to treat them if they became the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">So they started to become monks after they had initiated into the order of the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">But after they had come round by the treatment of Jivaka they gave up Bhikkhu-dhamma.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Then Jivaka informed the matter to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The Buddha then called the other Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">You will not initiate the dangerous patients who are attacked by the leprosy, leucoderma and tuberculosis diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">From that time the patients attacked by the disease like leprosy, leucoderma and tuberculosis were prohibitted to enter into the order of the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Jivaka was the best physician of the ancient India.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">He was renowned as the name Viskacharya.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Archaeological excavation in Rajgir unearthed the mango orchard and the houses of Jivaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Buddhaghosh has a mentionable contributions in the Buddhists literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Details of his life is not known.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">It is known through various sources that he lived the fifth century A.D. Perhaps he was born in a certain village near Buddha Gaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">His father was Brahmin scholar.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">So he also learnt Triveda in his early age.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">He was defeated in debate by a scholar monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">He was charmed hearing Abhidhamma from the scholar monk and then he embraced Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">It is said that his voice was as distinct and deep as the Buddha, for which he was renowned as the name Buddhaghosh.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Buddhaghosh was very meritorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">After initiating Buddhism he studied Tripitaka and became scholar within short period.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">By this time he composed a book named Jnanodaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">He composed a speakable writing named Atthasalini upon Dhammasangani.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Finding wisdom and skill in Buddhaghosh Bhikkhu Sangha gave him a responsibility to translate the whole Atthakatha in Pali language after having gone to Ceylon.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Buddhaghosh went to Ceylon with the permission of the Bhikkhu Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">There he studied Tripitaka and Atthakatha at the Mahavihara of Anuradhapur.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Buddhaghosh requested the monks of Ceylon to translate the Atthakatha composed in Sinhali language into Pali language.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">The Bhikkhu Sangha of Ceylon permitted him to translate Atthakatha finding his skill in writing.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">For this he was also permitted to enter into the library of Mahavihara in Anuradhapur.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">After hard labour Buddhaghosh translated the whole Atthakatha in Pali language.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Then he returned to his own country.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Thus the great scholar Buddhaghosh made a great conribution to the Buddhist literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">He wrote the hard subjects of Tripitaka in easy language as it could be comprehensible to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">His Atthakatha is still well-known as an annotation and explanatory book.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Buddhaghosh will be immortal only for this book-though he has written many other books.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
