<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-budh-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.5</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">232</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2559</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">911</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t42">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The holy places are the most sacred places for all people.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Every religion has its own holy places.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The Buddhists also have many holy places.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">These places are the most sacred places for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">These holy places are divided into two parts, namely, the most holy lands and the sacred places.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Lumbini The birth place of Siddhartha.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Buddha GayaThe holy place for attaining Buddhahood.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Sarnath Famous for delivering first sermon The Dhammacakka Pavattana.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Kusinagar The place of Mahaparinibbana, the Great Passing away of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Among the holy places there are Sravasti, Rajagriha, Vaisali and Sankasya.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Many remembrances of the Buddha's life are implicated in these four holy places.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">So these places are very sacred to the Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">These eight conspicuous places are called Attamahathana (eight famous places) unitedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Kapilavastu, Sanchi, Ajanta, Taxila; Nalanda, Paharpur, Mahasthangar, Maynamati etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">These places are world famous for wonderful evidences of architecture, sculptor and artistical works.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Among them Taxila and Nalanda have been considered as the best seat of learning in Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Sanchi, Ajanta, Maynamati, Paharpur, Mahasthangar are famous for architecture and artistic works.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Kapilavastu is renowned for about 29 years memorable life of Gautama.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">These places are renowned for the religious inspiration and as the historical places too.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In ancient time, stupas (mounds), buildings and vihara (monasteries) were constructed in these places.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Many memories of the Buddha's life are involved with these eight large holy places.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Again, among the other places, many memories of the Buddha's life are involved with Kapilavastu and Nalanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">We are very lucky that Maynamati, Mahasthangar and Paharpur are situated in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">We can visit these places easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">It is a virtuous deed to wander about visiting places of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">We ought to obey religion and it is also our sacred duty to visit pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">By visiting holy places mind becomes pure and restless mind becomes calm.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The broadness of mind increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">People from different countries of home and abroad use to visit these holy places.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">As a result brotherliness among the people of these.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">There are good results of visiting holy places too.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">By this one alleviates misery, acquires religious merits and attains good way in the next world.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">By visiting historical places knowledge increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">One can see glorious deed of past and grows curiosity to know more.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">So everybody should go to visit the holy places according to ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">We need to expand our knowledge by visiting the historical places.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Now we shall explain about some of the sacred places and historical places.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Kapilavastu is situated in Nepal at the foot of the Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Kaiplavastu was the capital of Siddhartha's father, the king Suddhodana of the Sakya clan.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">It is now named Padariva.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Kapilavastu stands on the bank of the river Rohini.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">It is said that once in the past, there, a saint Kapil by name, built a shelter by cutting jungle.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">From that time this was named Kapilavastu.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Kapilavastu was a small kingdom under the Kosala empire.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Suddhodana, the king of Kapilavastu, was the king of Sakya race.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Prince Siddhartha was the son of king Suddhodana.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Kapilavastu is famous for various reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Siddhartha was born in the Lumbini garden, not far from Kapilavastu.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">From his birth to the day of renunciation of the world Siddhartha passed his long life in the city of Kapilavastu.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">So there lies many memories of His life in this city.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Once in his boyhood watching ploughing festival Siddhartha was found absorbed in deep meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Devadatta once wounded a swan by his arrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Siddhartha cured the wounded-swan and made it to fly in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The prince Siddhartha got marry Yasodhara in the palace of Kapilavastu city.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Before renunciation of worldly life Siddhartha travelled around the city and He saw four scenes.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Three of them were sorrowful and the other was an ascetic.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Why are there so sufferings in the world?</sent>
				<sent id ="58">What is the way to attain emancipation?</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In quest of the solutions of the above questions He left home on the birth-day of His son Rahula.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">After He had received Buddhahood He came to Kapilavastu with His disciples on an invitation from king Suddhodana.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He took his shelter in Negrodhkunja.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He delivered His religious sermons there.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">After hearing this religious topics from Him, His father, step-mother, wife and many of the Sakyas initiated themselves into Buddhist religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He initiated His son Rahula into Buddhist religion-here, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Kapilavastu has thus become so significant in the history of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Rajagriha is situated to the south-east of Patna district of Bihar in-India.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">At present the name of Rajagriha is Rajgir.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">This Rajagriha is a very old city which is situated in the valley surrounded by the five hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Many events and incidents of Gautarna Buddha's life have taken place in this old city.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">So Rajagriha is a holy land for the Buddhist community.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">During the period of the Buddha, Bimbisara was the king of Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Rajagriha was the capital of his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">King Bimbisara was Buddha's contemporary and a great devotee to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Many memories of the Buddha's life are involved with Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">After leaving the palace Siddhartha at first received religious instruction from Arar Kalam and Rudraka in Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">After attaining Buddhahood (Enlightenment), He started preaching His religion from Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Then He passed here many years and observed many Varsavasa here.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">King Bimbisara gifted Venuvana for living the disciples of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Venuvana Vihara was one of the dearest dwelling-shelter of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">In Venuvana He initiated into His religion Sariputta and Moggallayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">There is a warm-stream named Tapoda near Venuvana.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The pilgrims take their hathe here.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">They believe that gout and skin diseases etc. are recovered by taking bathe here.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">There is a cave named Pipphali over this stream.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Mahakassapa used to live in the cave.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The Buddha came here several times.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Saptaparni Guha (cave) is to the west of Pipphali cave.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The first Buddhist Conference took place here under the patronage of king Ajatasatru.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Ajatasatru, imprisoned his father king Bimbisara and kept him under custody in Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">King Bimbisara died in the prison.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Devadatta plotted with Ajatasatru to kill Buddha in Rajagriha. .</sent>
				<sent id ="92">There is the Mango-grove of the Royal physician Jivaka in Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Jivaka was a great devotee to the Buddha and was also his physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Jivaka bestowed his mango-orchard to the Buddha and His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The Buddha also stayed in some other places of Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The name of the places are Gridhrakuta hill, Gautama Negrodharama, Choraprapat, Kalosila, Sarpasoundik Guha, Venuvana, Madrakukkhi etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Buddha delivered his religious sermons to his followers several times in these places.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The city-plan of Rajagriha was very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The city was surrounded by two high walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">There were 96 gates in these wall of which 32 were big and 64 were small.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">One can go to Rajagriha changing the Rail at Bakhtiarpur station from Calcutta and Patna.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">One can go to this holy place from Calcutta by road too.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Sravasti stands on the bank of the river Achiravati in the district of Gonda under the Northern province of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Some people think that everything was available here for which it was named Sabastha or Savastha.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">On the contrary some others think that there lived a saint named Sabastha, So Sravasti was named after his name.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The present-name of Sravasti is Sahet-Mahet.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">It is about 21 kilometre away from Balarampur Station.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">One can go by bus from Balarampur station too.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">During the period of the Buddha Sravasti was a big village in North Province.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It was the capital and a commercial area of Kosala king Prasenjit.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">There are so many memories of the Buddha's life at Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">So Sravasti is one of the chief holy places of the Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">There were three famous monasteries in Sravasti, these are Jetavana, Purbaram and Rajakaram.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Amonb them Jetavana Vihara was very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The rich merchant (Shresthi) Sudatta of.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Sravasti gifted this vihara to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">He was very dear lay disciple of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">He liked and selected grove for buildina a monastery for the Buddha and His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">This was the pleasure- garden of prince Jeta.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The prince demanded very high price when the merchant Sudatta had wanted to purchase the grove.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">He said that he would sell the land if the merchant could cover the entire land with the gold-coins as its price.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The merchant Sudatta covered the land with gold-coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Then he built there a large monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">There were bed-rooms, prayer-hall; cave, store-room, meditation-room, space for circumambulation, tank, bath-room and many other necessary provisions for the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">There were some colleges in Jetavana Vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Among them the name of Kosamba kuti and Mahagandha kuti are mentionable.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The Buddha observed 19 Varsavasa in Jetavana.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Mahaupasika Visakha conferred to Buddha a Mahavihara named Purbaram.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Visakha was a beautiful daughter of a rich merchant of Saket.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Later the rich merchant of Sravasti named Migar made his daughter-in-law.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Visakha was devotee of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">She was called Migar-mata.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">So the Purbaram Vihara is known as Migar-mata palace too.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The monastery was two-storied.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The Buddha stayed in this monastery for six Varsa.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The third monastery of Jetavana is Rajakaram.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">King Prasenjit of Kosala built this monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The king Prasenjit also built an inn here at the request of the queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">It was named Mallikaram.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Anjanavan (forest) was adjacent to Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Gavampati, a disciple of the Buddha, lived here.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Theri Sujata attained Arahatta here, after listening to the preaching of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Utpalabanna; Aggasavika of the Buddha also lived in Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The wrecked portions of old Sravasti are found in the place named Mahet and Sahet at present.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The destroyed portion of Jetavana vihara covered about 32 acres at Mahet.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The ruined portions of original Sravasti city are spread out about four hundred acres area at Sahet.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">These two places are only one kilometre distance from each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Once upon a time Nalanda was the greatest seat of learning in India.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">It is situated in Patna district at present Bihar of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It is about 10 kilometre away from Rajagriha.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">In the outskirts of Rajagriha, Nalanda was then a prosperous village.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">From the source of Pali Text it is known that Gautama Buddha came several times to Nalanda and took rest at Pavarika Mango grove.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">He praised of Nalanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">It is said that the emperor Asoka laid the foundation stone of Nalanda Mahavihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">After the death of emperor Asoka, Nalanda Mahavihara was developed with the donation of many kings and rich persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The fame of Nalanda spread during the reign of Pala kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The Pala rulers gifted land for Nalanda Vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">They built big monasteries and libraries.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Thus Nalanda Mahavihara turned into famous University in the fifteenth century.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Gradually the fame of Nalanda spread all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Nalanda University is surrounded by high walls.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The rooms of the university are high.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The top of each room is found.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">A renowned Chinese traveller Yit-Singh said, There, were eight hall-rooms and three hundred rooms in Nalanda University.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Beyond this there were dwelling rooms of students.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Two students were accommodated in each room.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">There were a bedstand and a table for them in each room.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">These were stone-made.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">After digging of archaeology plenty of artistical works were found.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Beyond this, there were found plates, cups, pots etc. used by monks and students.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">These are preserved in the museum of Nalanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It is said, once upon a time there lived 10,000 people in the Nalanda University.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Among them 1500 people were professors and 8000 students.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Except bed-time, the work of teaching continued from morning till evening, The library was very Prosperous.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Many renowned scholars were the students of this university.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Not only from different parts of India, the learners used to come from abroad to study in Nalanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Huen Tsang was a residential student of Nalanda University for five years.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Yit-Singh was a learner for about ten years.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Bhikkhu Shilabhadra was then the principal of Nalanda University.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Great philosopher Nagarjun was also a student of this University.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Later he was appointed the Principal of the Nalanda University.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The Buddhist Philosopher and Logician Ding Nag also stayed in Nalanda for many days.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Nalanda University was the main centre of practising Buddhist Philosophy.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Beyond this, medical science, logic, phonology, chemistry and another subjects were also taught there.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">After completing the education, the learners were given title on the basis of merit.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">In a special festival the local king gave certificates Kulapati and Pandita to the meritorious students.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The then Nalanda University is no more today.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Several times it was attacked and destroyed by the enemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">At present the Bihar Government set up an education centre named New Nalanda Mahavihara for studying Buddhist Religious Education.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">In many parts of Bangladesh, there were found the instances of Buddhists architectures, after digging of archaeology.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Maynamati of Comilla district is one of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Maynamati is about eight kilometre away from Comilla town.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Once upon a time Maynamati was the centre of practising of Buddhist Philosophy in the East India.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">In the eighth century this region was under the kings of Deva dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Then the name of Maynamati was Pattikera.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">During the period of the Deva kings there developed ancient Buddhist institutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">At that time the kings of Chandra dynasty reigned in this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">All of them were followers of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The Buddhists organizations flourished more with their patronization.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">There are Buddhists villages near Maynamati.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">It is presumed that the name of Pattikera was named Maynamati after the name of the queen of king Manik Chandra of the Chandra dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">This was the main city of the Chandra race.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">This city was situated on the Lalmai hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Perhaps the, soil of hill was red, so it was called Lalmai hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Gradually the city was turned down under the earth for several reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">After digging of archaeology, so many old architectural arts were discovered.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Among these Salvan Vihara, palace of king Andha, Rupban Mura, palace of Bhoj raja.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Kutilmura, Chandimura etc. are main.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It is supposed that Salvan Vihara was made during the period of the Deva dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Later this Mahavihara had been reconstructed and extended several times.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The monastery was rebuilt four times on the upper level.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The peculiarity of Salvan Vihara is, it is equal in length and breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The main shrine was in centre.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">There are 11.5 rooms surrounding the central Shrine.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">All of the rooms are equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The monks stayed, meditated and learnt their lessons there.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">There is a courtyard and a varanda in front of the monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">There were four vistior-rooms in four corners.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">There was only one gate in the monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The name of Kutilmura is next to Salvan Vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Kutilmura is situated about five kilometre north to the Salvan Vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">There are found the ruins of three stupas.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">It is supposed that the three stupas were made as the symbols of Tiratana Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">A temple has been found at Charpatra Mura in the north-west of Kutilmura.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The ruins of the palace of king Ananda has been found in another place, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">There are monastery and the images of the Buddha and Padmapani of Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">An image of the Buddha has been found at Rupbanmura.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Bodhisattva Manjusree and Padmapani Buddha have been found at Chandimura.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Lately there has been discovered a large image of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">There were found Arabian coins too.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">These things are kept in the museum.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">One can go easily to Maynamati as it is very near to the Comilla Railway station.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
