<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-budh-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.564</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">297</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3501</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1063</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t44">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The necessity of reading Jataka in one word is boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">It is necessary to read Jataka to know the condition of the men in ancient time.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">These Jatakas were composed more than two thousand and five hundred years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Gautama Buddha in course of his advices to his disciples narrated the stories of Jatakas which relate to his previous births.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">At the time of attaining Enlightenment He acquired the knowledge of memorizing his previous births.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">All the stories of Jatakas are instructive.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Everyone from younger to elder attains sacred advice through dfferent stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Some Jatakas or the parts of Jataka are so attractive that at the time of reading mind becomes melted with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Through all these stories Buddha described the deepest themes of the religion in very easy language.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Therefore the Jatakas are not merely the stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">There are deep teachings of love and affection to all beings in Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">As a result love and affection grow for all kinds of animals, insects, leaves, plants and human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">It shows us how deep can be the brotherhood among the men!</sent>
				<sent id ="14">This fraternity does good to human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The gist of the Buddhism is loving kindness to all beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">As a man everybody loves his own life so dearly, thus every being does.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Jataka helps us to learn this.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Man can attain Nibbana by doing good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Nibbana is a great wealth this can be learnt through the stories of Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">There are three parts in Jataka_present incident, past story and the coordination.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">In the present incident there is why and what for the story is told.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">In the second part there are the original Jatakas or the life-stories of Gautama Buddha's former lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">In the third part there are the connections between the past life and the present life of the man and woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">It means that Gautama Buddha took birth as Bodhisattva in the past_it is told in the Samabadhan.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">As a result, it is known to us how were the men of ancient time, their surrounding environments and history etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">We know how the kings of ancient time rule over the kingdoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">We can know vast of old history by reading the Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">We can know the consequence of an act by reading the Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Men attain good result with the good deeds and bad result with bad deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">It has been repeatedly told in thousand times in various manner about heaven, hell, ghosts, deceased etc. and about the different people in the Jatakas.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">By this, we can understand the nature of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The Jatakas are quite against the prejudices.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Argument has been founded supremacy than a scripture in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">In the Jatakas it is told again and again that there is an eternal emancipation in the way of argument.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The Buddha told repeatedly that the Buddhism is the religion of reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">There has been explained about the fruitlessness of the astrology in the verses of Nakkhatta and Mahamangala Jataka.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">So we feel now more necessity of reading Jataka.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">You will know much after you have read these when you have grown up.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">In ancient time before the solar years of mortals of Gautama Buddha, Bodhisattva was a hawker in the kingdom named Serib.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Then he was named Seriban.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">There was one more hawker by name Seriba in that country.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">He was very greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Once Bodhisattva went to Andhapur Nagar with Seriba for business.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Once there lived a rich Setthi's family in Andhapur.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The Setthi family lost all the wealth being compelled by circumstances.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">They became poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">All the male members of the family died one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">There were none but a little girl and an old grandmother in that family.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They passed their days working at the neighbour's house any how.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">They had a gold-plate in their house.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The rich man used to take rice on that gold plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">After the richman had died nobody would use that plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">As it was not used for many years the plate became dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Then it fell upon the broken plates and cups so that it did not seem to be gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The old grandmother also forgot about the plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">One day the greedy hawker Seriba was passing by that Setthi's house saying 'Pitchers for sale, pitchers for sale.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Hearing the call of the hawker the girl said to her grand mother, O grand-mother, let me buy an ornament.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The grandmother said, We are poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Where shall we get the coins?</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Then the girl fetched the gold plate from the heap of old plates and said, Cant we purchase something in exchange of this?</sent>
				<sent id ="61">It serves us no purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The grandmother agreed and called the hawker, then said, Will you please give an ornament to my grand-daughter in exchange of this plate?</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The hawker examined both the sides of the plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">He suspected about the plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Then he spotted on the back side of the plate with a needle and understood that it was gold- plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">At once he intended to take the plate deceiving them.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">He said, It costs nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">I shall be loser if I take it even with a quarter rupee.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Saying this he went out throwing the plate pretending that he was not interested in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">After a while Bodhisattva was passing that way and called in the same manner if anybody would buy a pitcher.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Hearing the call of a hawker the girl again persisted her grandmother for buying an ornament.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The old grandmother said, You have heard yourself that the plate costs nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">There is no other article in the house for sale.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The girl said, That hawker was not good.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">His words wounded my feelings.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">But how sweet this hawker's calling is!</sent>
				<sent id ="77">We should try once more' The old woman then called Bodhisatva and requested him to sit on.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Then she gave the plate to his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">As soon as Bodhisattva saw the plate he understood that the plate was of gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">He said, Mother, this plate costs one lac rupees.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But I have not so much money to take this.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The old woman said, A hawker came bit earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">He said it did not cost even a quarter rupee.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">It seems, by dint of your virtue it has been turned into gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">So we will give this to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">You give us as you like in exchange of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Then Bodhisattva had only goods cost of five hundred rupees and cash in hand five hundred rupees.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">He kept only rupees eight with him giving rest of the money and goods to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Then he hurriedly left for the bank of the river with his scales and weights, bag and the gold plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">There was a boat in the ferry.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Bodhisatva got up on the boat and said to the boatman, Please get me across the river in a hurry.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The greedy Seriba again went to the old woman's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">He said, 'Give me the plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">I thought while going back it looks odd if I don't give something in exchange of the plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">So I have come back`.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The old woman said, What do you say?</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Didnt you say it doesn't cost even a quarter rupee?</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Just now a good hawker came.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">I think he will be your master.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He bought the plate at the cost of a thousand rupees.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">As soon as the hawker had heard the old woman's word his head moved.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He then began to jump like a mad.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The things and money that he had, he threw them all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Then he exclaimed in a grief, Alas!</sent>
				<sent id ="105">I have lost my all.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">I am undone!</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Seriban has taken away my gold plate costing Taka one lac by pretension.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Saying this he ran to the bank of the river to hold Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Shouting as a mad he began to call the boatman, Back the boat, back the boat.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">But Bodhisattva forbade the boatman not to back the boat.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The boatman took Bodhisattva to the opposite bank of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The greedy Seriba could not bear the scene and the loss of the gold plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Being despaired and angry he died instantly by heart failure.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Bodhisattva died after he had enjoyed the results of good deeds and offering gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Moral : Avarice leads to vice and vice leads to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">In an ancient time Bodhisattva was born in a certain family of Udichya Brahmin at the time of Brahmadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">He went to the Himalayas thinking that the household life is full of distress, on the contrary renunciation of wordly life is joyful.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Going there he initiated himself into mendicant life.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">At last he attained the meditation and eight kinds of its results.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Five hundred hermits were his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Once in the rainy season he arrived at the Himalayas with his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He reached in Beneras begging from city to the janapadas.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">There he passed away four months of the rainy season in the garden of the king as a guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Then he went to the king to seek permission to leave garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The king said, You have grown old.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Why will you go back to the Himalayas in this age?</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Please stay here and send your disciples to the shelter of the Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">He agreed at the request of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Then he said to the eldest disciple, I offer you the responsibility to look after the five hundred disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Go to the Himalayas with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">I shall stay here.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The eldest disciple of Bodhisattva was a king in his early life.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">He left his kingdom and initiated himself in the mendicant life.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">After meditation he attained, the eight kinds of results of the meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">In accordance with an order of the teacher he went to the Himalayas with the disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">There he stayed with the devotees and once he was anxious to see the teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Then he said, You stay here in good health.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">I will return paying my respect to the teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Saying this he went to Beneras and paid his respect to the teacher, then he lay down on a mat a side.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Just on that moment the king came to see the devotee too.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">He paid respect to the devotee as usual and sat down a side.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The new-comer devotee did not leave his bed even seeing the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Lying comfortably he began to say, How happy it is!</sent>
				<sent id ="144">What a happiness it is!</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The king duly showed his respect to the newcomer hermit who did not leave his bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The king then thought that the hermit seemed to neglect him.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">So he was annoyed and said to Bodhisattva, Lord, this hermit seemed to have taken much food.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Otherwise why he is saying How happy it is!</sent>
				<sent id ="149">What a happiness it is!</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Bodhisattva said, Your majesty, this hermit was a king as you are.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">But after initiating as a hermit he has got happiness that he did not get while he was reigning kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Now he thinks that the happiness of kingship is very negligible to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">He is now devoted with the endless happiness of the meditation after having initiated as a mendicant.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Only for this reason he says thus with his vast happiness of heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">He is the happy who has no desire for anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He never thinks to save himself under another shadow and also does not think to save his anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">After hearing this religious advice the king left for the palace showing respect to Bodhisattva duly.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The hermit also returned to the Himalayas showing respect to Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Bodhisattva stayed in Beneras.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">He died as usual in, full age with full consciousness and went to Brahmaloka.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Moral: Happiness lies in renunciation, not in enjoyment.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In ancient time Bodhisattva was born in an elephant-tribe and he was the chief of eighty thousand elephants.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">At that time a Latukika bird laid eggs on the wandering place of the elephants: Once some young's came out from the eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The wings were not yet grown up, So they were unable to fly.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">In the mean time Bodhisattva with his group of elephants was passing through that place.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The mother Latukika became restless thinking to save her young ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">She thought, her children would lose their lives falling under the legs of the elephants.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">So she stood before Bodhisattva to save the lives of her young's.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">She prayed to Bodhisattva folding her two wings to save the lives of her young's.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">She requested to the king of- elephants, You are now eighty years old, you are renowned, you wander in the flat land over the mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">I adore you folding my two wings, you, please, don't kill my young's'.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Bodhisattva said to the mother Latukika, Dont be afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">I will save your youngs.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">So saying he roofed the young's standing upon them by widening his four legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He moved after the eighty thousand elephants had left one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Then at the time of leaving he said, There comes a lonely elephant behind us.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">He is alone and group less.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He does not hear us and does not obey us.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">So you pray to him to save the young's of yours'.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The Latukika bird thanked Bodhisattva and bade farewell.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Then the lonely elephant reached there.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The mother Latukika prayed him politely folding her two wings to save her young's' lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">I pay my respect to you with folding wings, please don't kill my weak young's'.,</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Then the lonely elephant said, Latukika bird, I will kill your youngs grinding with my legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">You are weak, what can you do against me?</sent>
				<sent id ="186">I can finish hundreds of Latukika birds with my left leg-so saying he crushed the youngs with his legs and went away roaring.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">You will realize what can I do to you in a few days.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">You don't know that knowledge is stronger than the physical strength, I will teach you a good lesson.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Then the Latukika bird made friendship with a crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The crow was glad to be friendship with it and said, Friend, what can I do for you?</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Latukika said, Friend, could you uproot the eyes of that lonely elephant one day?</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Hearing the tragic story of the Latukika bird the crow said, Well, I will do.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Then Latukika made friendship with a blue fly.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The blue fly also took to heart listening the tragic story of the Latukika bird as the crow.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The Latukika bird told, Brother, when the crow will uproot the elephants eyes, you will lay your eggs there.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">This is my request to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The blue fly agreed to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Then Latukika went to a frog.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">She made friendship with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The frog too heard all about the Latukika bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Then Latukika said, Brother, frog, the lonely elephant will run with unbearable pain of eyes here and there to drink water.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Then you will make sound from the top of the hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Then the wicked elephant will get on the hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">You will get down then and make sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The elephant will try to get down from the hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">And he will fall down and die.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">I want only this help from you.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The frog agreed.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Then the crow uprooted the two eyes of the elephant.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The blue fly laid eggs on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Being tormenting the elephant ran away hither and thither in search of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The frog began to call from the top of the hill.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The elephant following the sound ascended on the hill with a great trouble.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Again the frog came down from the hill and began to make its sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The elephant too ran hurriedly following the sound, but the blind lonely elephant fell down and lost his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Thus the Latukika bird defeated the vast elephant by its intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The lonely elephant was Devadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Moral : The power of knowledge is stronger than physical strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">In ancient time Bodhisattva was born as a Kurangamiga during the period of Beneras Raj Brahamadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">He lived his livelihood by eating fruits from the forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">There was a big Saptaparni tree in that forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Bodhisattva used to eat the fruits of that large tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">At that time there lived a hunter in a village beside the wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">He kept himself waiting on the branch of the tree building a platform.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The deer could not understand that and were killed by the hunter's arrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The hunter lived his livelihood by selling the deer's flesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">One day the hunter was waiting for Bodhisattva sitting on the platform on the branch of that Saptaparni tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">So I too should examine if there is any hunter on the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Bodhisattva was looking carefully from the distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The hunter saw Bodhisattva was not coming under the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">So he threw at Bodhisattva rending fruits from the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Then Bodhisattva could understand that surely there was hunter on the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Otherwise who would throw the fruits at him?</sent>
				<sent id ="234">So Bodhisattva looked at the tree keenly again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">At last he found the hunter behind the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Bodhisattva pretended that he did not see the hunter and said, O tree, you dropped your fruits direct below the tree so long.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">But why are you throwing those to day?</sent>
				<sent id ="238">As you are not working naturally, so I also go under another tree and collect my food there.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">So saying while Bodhisattva was about to go, the hunter threw the arrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">But the arrow did not touch the body of Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Then the hunter said, Be off!</sent>
				<sent id ="242">To day you have been rescued from my hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">You have to suffer from five kinds of grief like greed, violence, illusion etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">So saying Bodhisattva left for another, destination.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The hunter got down from the tree and left for another place.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">In ancient time Bodhisattva was born as monkey during the period of Brahmadatta in Beneras in the province of Himavanta.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">He had strength as an elephant in his vast body.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">He was as mighty as prosperous.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">He lived in a wood of a curve of the Ganges.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">At that time there was crocodile in the river Ganges.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Finding the vast body of Bodhisattva the wife of the crocodile wished to eat his heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">The wife of the crocodile said to the crocodile, `I have been wishing to eat the heart of the king of the monkey.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">You arrange it.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The crocodile told, `What a nuisance!</sent>
				<sent id ="255">I am an aquatic animal, but the monkey is a terrestrial animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">How can I catch him?`</sent>
				<sent id ="257">`Fetch him any how.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">I will die if I do not get the heart`.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The crocodile said.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Well, there is a way.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">I shall fetch him to you`.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The crocodile then went to Bodhisattva on the bank of the Ganges, and said, O the king of the monkey!</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Why are you spoiling your life eating always such fruits in this bank of the river?</sent>
				<sent id ="264">There is no want of sweet fruits like mangoes, Deuas etc. on the opposite bank of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Don't you intend to eat them going there?' Bodhisattva said, The Ganges is a vast river.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">It has vast water.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">How can I across the river?</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The, crocodile said, There is a way if you intend to go.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">I can carry you on my back.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Bodhisattva believed the crocodile and then said, Well, let us go.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The crocodile said, `Come, sit upon my back.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Bodhisattva sat on the back of the crocodile.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">But he began to drive slowly after he had gone some way.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Bodhisattva said, Friend, why are you sinking me in the water?</sent>
				<sent id ="275">What kind of behaviour it is yours!</sent>
				<sent id ="276">The crocodile said, Have you thought I am carrying you for the sake of your goodness and loving you?</sent>
				<sent id ="277">But not that.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">My wife wishes to eat your heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">So I am arranging that.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Bodhisattva said instantly, You have done well expressing me your secret.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Our hearts stay on the branches of the trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Otherwise at the time of jumping from tree to tree our hearts might break it pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Then the crocodile said, See, the king of the monkey, if you give me your heart I will not kill you.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Bodhisattva said, Then let me take there that the heart hanging on the tree and I will give it to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Then the crocodile took Bodhisattva adjacent to the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Bodhisattva jumped instantly on a branch of the tree and sat there.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Then said, You fool crocodile, you believed that the animal's hearts stay on the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">You are really fool.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">I made you a fool.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Could you understand?</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Your body is vast, but in comparison of that you have a little intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">I do not need those mangoes, blackberries and jackfruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Eating them in this bank let be dawn of my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Yours is the vast body, but intelligence is very little, You have been deprived, go then as you like ill-minded.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">As a man feels sorry losing a thousand of rupees, the crocodile's condition was also like that.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">He went back with a heavy heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Moral : Face all kinds of danger with patience and intelligence.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
