<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-budh-11</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.356</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">328</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4048</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1239</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t36">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Samgiti means Sanghayan, Conference, Summit, Meeting etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Some Sanghayans were performed for collection and preservation the Tripitaka correctly after the Great Passing away of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">These are known as Sanghayan or Samgiti in the Buddhists history.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">During the period of the Buddha's life, His disciples listened to and kept in memory the words of the Buddha, the religion and the doctrines.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">During the period perhaps nobody thought to record in writing those invaluable wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Rather stress was given to how one could memorize things.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Probably this was considered as the criteria to judge the merits of the disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Those who could keep in mind by hearing those were called retentive.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">He who could keep Vinaya by heart was called Vinaydhar.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Bhikkhu Upali was Vinaydhar.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">That means, whatever the Buddha explained about Vinaya, Upali could tell the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The Buddha had many disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">They did not stay in the same place.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">They scattered in different places and explained to his followers about religion and Vinaya and placed before them different precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">As a result those precepts were in vogue orally to the disciples but these were not written.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">During the period of the Buddha's life probably nobody thought seriously about these.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">They could easily clarify the issue in case of any confusion about the Dhamma and Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">After Buddha's attaining the Mahaparinibbana there were differences of opinion on the Dhamma and Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">By this time some Bhikkhus started working against the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Even some of them put up controversial questions on the Buddha's religion and Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">At this there happened chaos and confusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">As a result it was needed to solve where there arose the objection about the subjects of the Dhamma and the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">And so Samgiti was called.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">In a word, generally Samgiti is called if there is found any different opinion in the Buddha's speech, religion or Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">There are difference of opinions about the number of Samgiti held till to-day.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">But the Buddhists of the South-east Asia unanimously agree that so far six Samgitis have been taken place.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">As there was reason behind the convention of the first Samgiti so also the second Samgiti.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Many people think that some Bhikkhus did not accept some of the decisions of the first Samgiti.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">As a result after a few days there were found different opinions among the Bhikkhus about the Dhamma and the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Some Bhikkhus were living as they liked, disobeying the rules and regulations of the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Beyond that often there were continuing debates among the Bhikkhus about some trifling rules of the duty of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">In the long run there were found different opinions among the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">In this way one hundred years passed after Gautama Buddha's attaining the Mahaparinibbana.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Then Vaisali was ruled by king Kalashoka.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The Vajjis of Vaisali was then very influential.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The Bhikkhus of the Vajji-tribe were called Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhus did not obey the Vinaya as usual.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">They moved freely.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Once they started to proclaim their own-made ten kinds of rules as the rules that were not in the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">These ten rules which are contrary to the Vinaya are called Dasavatthuni.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The Bhikkhus could store salts into the horn if they liked to do and could use it in case of need.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Thus it is presumed that there was scarcity of salts at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">But according to the order of the Buddha they could not store salts for themselves).</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The Bhikkhus could eat second time in the same day in the village.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The Bhikkhus could take food after the shadow of the sun had bent down two fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Outside the Upasathagar, anywhere of the monastery the Uppsatha, Pabarana, Upasampada etc. could be observed.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Without the permission of the Sangha any rule could be changed and permission could be sought later.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The traditional works to be obeyed as the approved rules of the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The Bhikkhus could take milk and curd in liquid form in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">If the Bhikkhus liked to take the juice of the palmyra fruit they could do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">If the Bhikkhus liked to use the seat having a fringe they could.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">If the Bhikkhus liked to accept gold, silver or money they could.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">By that time Arahata Yasa Thera was appeared in Vaisali after having walked different countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">There he heard about Dasavatthuni, contrary to the moral rules of the Vinaya, of the Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Having heard all these, he thought that those were wrong, he should make them understand that their decisions were wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Otherwise, the religion would not survive more.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">On a Uposatha day the Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhus ordered the followers to give them money as gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Yasa Thera protested and said, Dear followers, you will not gift any money or coins to the Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The Bhikkhus can not accept any money or coins.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">But the followers disobeyed his advice and let offering money and coins to the Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhus requested the Thera to take a part from the gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Yasa Thera did not accept that.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">So the Bhikkhus grew angry and attributed a punishment named Patisaraniya Kamma against him.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Yasa Thera said, You have given me punishment, you have done well.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">But please give me a monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">I want to go to the villagers to inform them about my fault`.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The Bhikkhus sent a monk from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Yasa Thera appeared before the villagers and said, Followers, I told the Dhamma is Dhamma and called the blind is blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">I did not do any wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhus tried to change the Vinaya preached by Gautama Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They are propagating contrary to the subject matter of the Vinaya as the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">I was found guilty by saying that the Buddha preached us.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">You think yourselves, whether it is my fault or theirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The villagers could understand that the Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhus were in fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Yasa Thera was a real virtuous and pious Bhikkhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Having got the news the Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhus attributed the punishment Ukkhepaniya on Yasa Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Yasa Thera then understood that it was not possible to solve the quarrel by this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Then he reached at Kosambi.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Yasa Thera sent news to the Bhikkhus of Pava well versed in Vinaya and the South India.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">He himself went to the Ahoganga mountain to call on Sambhuta Sanabasi Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Sambhuta Sanabasi Thera was a great arguer and scholar monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He too opined against the Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Sixty Arahata Bhikkhus from Pava and eighty eight Bhikkhus from the South India met at the Ahoganga mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">They all met in a Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">All of them admitted on one accord that the Dasavatthuni of the Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhus were contrary to the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Every one should protest against it.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">But the supporter Bhikkhus of the Vajjiputtiya Bhikkhus were not less in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Their power was also in a great number.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">So a great scholar Bhikkhu was needed to solve this serious problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Then Sambhuta Sanabasi Thera proposed the name of Venerable Revata Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">All of the present agreed to this.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The Bhikkhu was sent to inform this to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Revata Thera was a very virtuous monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Having heard everything he told, The deeds of the Vajji Bhikkhus are wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The Vajji Bhikkhus should give up all.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">On the other hand, the Vajji Bhikkhus also did not sit idle.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">They also tried best to collect the Bhikkhus in favour of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">They also tried to convince Revata Thera in their favour.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">They sent to him precious gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">But Revata Thera accepted nothing of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Rather he requested them to give up their prejudices.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He did not stop there.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">He went to Vaisali to call Sabbakami Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Sabbakami Thera was the disciple of Ananda Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Then he was 120 years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">He listened everything from Revata Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">He also told that the Dasavatthuni of the Vajji Bhikkhus were contrary to the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">So they are infidel in religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Having supported by Sabbakami Thera, Revata Thera decided to call a Bhikkhu-Conference to solve the quarrel.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Then a great Conference was arranged at the Balukaram Vihara in Vaisali to solve the dispute with the effort of Yasa Thera.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This is known as second Council in the history of Buddhist literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">At first king Kalashoka was in the side of the Vajji Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">But later when he could realized the fault of the Vajji Bhikkhus then he expressed his obedience to the conveners of the Summit.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He bore all expenses to make a religious stage for the Summit.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He arranged all kinds of nursing for the existing Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Among the thousands of the Bhikkhus only seven hundred attainders of Patisamvida Tipitaka Visharada were selected to participate in this Summit.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The second Samgiti was called Sapta Shatika too, for there participated seven hundred Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">At the beginning of the Conference both the parties of the Bhikkhus argued on various subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">So the work of the meeting faced to obstacle.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">At last a management committee was formed with eight Bhikkhus unanimously.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In this committee there were four from western country and four Mahatheras from Pava.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The session of the Council continued for long eight months.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Detail discussion on the Dasavatthuni took place in the Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">At last all the members of the management committee agreed in a body that the Dasavatthuni was not in consonance with the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Then the decision of the management committee was announced in public.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">There also it was accepted by all that the Dasavatthuni was not right as per Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Sabbakami Thera adorned the religious seat at the Samgiti Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Revata Thera presided over the -meeting.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">All the works of the second Council were also performed smoothly as the first one.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The Tripitaka was not recorded in writing in the second Summit, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">So there were no way to rectify the Dhamma and the Vinaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">But many of the Vajji Bhikkhus did not accept this decision of the second Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">So they were turned out from the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The number of the expelled Bhikkhus was not negligible.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">It is also informed that the expelled Bhikkhus arranged a separate Samgiti.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">There they brought some changes in the Dhamma and the Vinaya that were accepted at the first Summit.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">They rejected some of the old doctrines and replaced some new rules and declared that these were the doctrines preached by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">As a result after the second Summit the Bhikkhu Sangha were divided into two groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">One of them was Theravadi and the another one was Mahasanghika.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Those who accepted the Dhamma and the Vinaya that were collected and accepted in the first Summit were known as Theravadi or Hinayano.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">And those who were expelled from the second Summit and held an alternate Summit were known as Mahasanghika or Mahayani.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The Buddhist all over world are divided into this two parts till now.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The Buddhists of Burma, Ceylon.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand, India, Bangladesh etc. are known as Theravadi Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">On the other hand, the Buddhists of China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Russia, Mangolia, Tibet etc. are known as Mahayani Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">CHAPTER TWELVE THE BUDDHISM IN BANGLADESH MEDIAEVAL AGE The Pales began rule Bengal in the middle of the eighth century A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Gopal was the founder of this Pala dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">At the beginning of the Pala dynasty a new chapter of the history of Bengal had been introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The Pala kings ruled Bengal about four hundred years.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Such a long period of four hundred years of kingdom of a dynasty is scarcely found in the history of a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">About one hundred years before Gopal Dev began to rule, Bengal was passing through a state of anarchy.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">This is called Matsyanyaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It means the principles of fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The big fishes eat the small fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Such an oppression of the strong to the weak is called Matsyanyaya or anarchy.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">So people became impatient.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The people of the country selected Gopal as the king for rescuing themselves from anarchy.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The name of his father was Bapyata and the name of his grand father was Dayita Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The Pala kings are called Kshatriya.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">In the copper plate of the Pala kings, it was written Pararna Sougata.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">At that time the identity of the dynasty or the kings identification used to be written in tile copper plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">These are named Tamra- Patta, or the copper plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It was mentioned that all the Pala kings were Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The copper plates of the Pala kings of the first two hundred years were found in (present Bihar) Magadha and neighbouring regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Ramacharit was composed by Sandhyakar Nandi the famous poet of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">In Ramacharit Barendra Bhumi is said to be the birth place of the Palas.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The historian Lama Tarariaih of Tibet also told that Gopal introduced the kingdom of Pala in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Probably Gopal was selected as the king in 750 A.D. Barendra Bhumi was the centre of his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The old name of North Bengal was Barendra Bhumi.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The region was formed with larger Pabna, Bogra and Rajshahi.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">During the period of Gopal the whole Bengal was under his rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He was a powerful king.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">During his period a Buddhist built the Odantapuri monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The renowned Buddhist philosopher Shanta Rakshit was his contemporary.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Beyond this, no more is know about Gopal.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">He ruled till 775 A.D. Dharma pal, the son of Gopal Dev ascended the throne in 775 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Dharma pal involved in the battle with the kings of the North India.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He was defeated by Batsa-Raj the first.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">But he conquered Bhoja, Matsya, Madra, Kuru, Javan, Avanti and Gandhara one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">He spread kingdom from Bihar to Afganistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Beyond this, it is informed that he conquered Nepal too.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The rulers of these countries yielded to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">During this period he ruled over Bengal and Bihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Kanauj was also under his jurisdiction but out of his rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Besides, the hilly regions of the Punjab, Rajputana, Malab and Berar kingdoms were obedient to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">He ruled till 812 A.D. During the period of Dharmapal peace and discipline all over Bengal and Bihar were established.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">During this period a new chapter of the Bangalee nationality was begun.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The renaissance of Bangalee's literature, art and religion was started.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He permanently founded his capital in Pataliputra (present Patna) the former capital of Asoka.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Dharmapal was great patron of the Buddhist religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">He built the famous Vikramsila vihara in Magadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">His another name was Vikramsil.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He had also contribution to build up the Sompuri and Odantapuri vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The Dhammacakka mark in the copper plates and stone inscriptions which were discovered from Paharpur were found.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The famous Buddhist writer Haribhadra was his religious teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Haribhadra composed his book Avisamayalankar at Traikutak monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Though he was a Buddhist, but he used to patronize the Brahmins.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">After the death of Dharmapal, his son Devapal became the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">He extended the boundary of his kingdom much more.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">He conquered Utkal or Orissa.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">His kingdom was spread from the foot of the Himalayas to the Bindhya mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">During his period the Arabian traveller and merchant Solaman, Idrisi and Mashudi plied several times in India.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Dharmapal had 50,000 elephants in his army.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Ten to fifteen thousand people were appointed to wash and arrange the clothes of his soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">During his period the Bangalees plied from the Brahmaputra to the Punjab.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The king of Asam too yielded to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The great king of Sailendra dynasty, Balaputra Dev of the peninsula, named yavadvip, Sumatra and Malay, sent a messenger to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Balaputra Dev built a Buddhist temple at Nalanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Devapal gifted five villages to bear the expenses of that temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Then Nalanda became main centre of the Buddhist religion in whole Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">He also was the patron of the Buddhism as his father and also attained fame outside India.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The most attractive glory of his reign was Badal-monument and the writings on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">In this writing there were written the glorious or noble deeds of five ministers under the kings from Dharmapal to three later kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Devapal had a great faith in Buddhist religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">There were found Dhammacakka mark in his most of the wills.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">There were found his stone inscriptions in Patna.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">There were found stone inscriptions at Ghosraban in Bihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">There was written about Bhikkhu Bir Dev.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">First Surapal reigned after Devapal.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Then his son first Vigrahapal ruled over the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">He was known as a pious and righteous king.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">He left the throne after he had ruled over the kingdom for two years.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">After this Narayan Pal reigned for 57 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">None but he was only in the throne for such a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">He was the king who was fond of peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">At this time the Pala kingdom was broken into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Then the Pala kingdom became limited within Bengal and Bihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Yet he was able to keep the rule of Bihar and Bengal in his own hand even at the last stage of his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">His son Rajyapal was the king till 952 A.D. It is known that he did good to the Buddhism and to the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Then second Gopal reigned till 972 A.D. During his period the Buddhism was promulgated and expanded abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Next to him second Vigrahapal reigned till 977 A.D. First Mahipal became king in 977 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">He again established his right on whole Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">His inscription was found at Brahmanbaria of Comilla.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Thus it was realized that he again occupied East Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">He recovered the kingdom from ruination and showed ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">For this he was called the second founder of the pala dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">During the period of Mahipal the royal power of Pala again became powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">He was careful to save the ancient noble deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">He rebuilt the old Buddhists establishments which were made during the period of Asoka.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Besides, he rebuilt the, Nalanda Monastery which was burnt during the eleventh year of his reign.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">He built two temples of Buddha Gaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">He rebuilt many large tank and cities.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">He founded temple at Sarnath and many old Buddhists temples made beautifully.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">He repaired the Dharmarajika or Asokastupa and Dhammacakka of Asoka pillar of Sarnath.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">He rebuilt the Sompur Vihara at Paharpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Nyayanpal, the son of Mahipal, probably reigned from 1027 A.D. to 1043 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">He involved in battle with king Karna.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">But the result of the battle was not solved.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Under the umpire ship of the sun of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Atisa Dipankar Srijnana, the treaty and peace established between the two kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The superior three kings of the Pala dynasty were Dharmapal, Devapal and Mahipal.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">For the last time, Rampal established the Pala dynasty on the throne of glory.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">But after that no other king could dignify the Pala dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Madan Pal was the last king of the Pala dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">During the period of the Pala dynasty Mahayana Buddhism spread in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">By this time, a great number of Buddhists-idolatry was started.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Then the Buddhists of Bangladesh were implicated, in thought and custom of Mahayana religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Then there were in vogue different opinions in Buddhist religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">They were known as Vajrayana, Mantrayana, Kalacakrayana and Sahajayna.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The religions teachers of these Yanas were renowned as the Siddhacharya (an accoplished man).</sent>
				<sent id ="261">They composed the songs by name J Buddhists Songs and Doha.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">These were also known as Caryapada.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">The songs were a part of their religion and rituals.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">This Caryapada was admitted as the oldest evidence of Bengali literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The Siddhacharyas were originally monks or saints.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">They appeared at the time of the Pala dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">By this time, the Buddhism spread largely.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The subject matter of the Caryapada is religion, philosophy and spiritual thought.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The theme of these songs is difficult to be realized.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">The meaning is not so easy to understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">These are meant different in inside and in outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">So it is said that they are composed in indistinct language.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The composers of the Caryapada were Bangalee.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">The Pala dynasty were engaged themselves to serve the Buddhism and the Sangha for four hundred years.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">They promulgated the Buddhist religion and thoughts all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Such devotion towards religion is scarcely found in the history.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">During the period of Dharmapal, the Nalanda Mahavihara was enriched with his efforts.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">After establishment of the Sompuri Vihara he founded many monasteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">With his effort the religious teacher Haribhadra composed the annotations of Avisamayalankar while residing at Traikut Vihara.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">During the period of Mahipal and Joypal the fame of a few Mahavihara spread in India and outside India.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Dharmapal built 50 big monasteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Beside all these, many monasteries were built during the Pala dynasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Most of them are yet to be unearthed.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Many realities about the fruits, flowers, plants, beasts, birds, rivers, ponds, seas, monasteries, groves are found in the Ranicharit composed by the poet Sandhyakar.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">In one side of the Pala kingdom there was the Ganges and in the other side there was the Karatoa river.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Jagaddal Mahavihara attained much fame there.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">There are written the names of many Buddhist deities by the name of Bodhisattva and Mahatara.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">In this book Ramabati, the capital of the Pala kings is said to be the most beautiful city which may be compared with the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">There were temples of very high attitude in this capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Ramabati was adjacent to present Maldaha.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The relics of this city has been found in the place named Amair.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">During the period of the Palas there were created a combined rule of art between Bengal and Bihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Religion and culture were also one and supreme.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">In this age, both Bengal and Bihar became one bodied and one minded.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">In this age, Vajrayana the opinion of Mahayana of the Buddhists was revealed and depending on that a special rule of art was developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">The rule of art revealed in two conditions-one was in sculpture and another one was in painting.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">The Pala painting of this age has been occupied as an extraordinary place.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The subject matter of this was Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Though it was religion, the standard of quality of this was amazing to the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The number of the instances of the Pala age that are found till today are innumerable.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">The instances of paintings of this age are seen in the various manuscripts.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Most of the manuscripts are duplicate copies of the religious books on Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">The books were written in Palm-leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">The artists drew various kinds of pictures on the palm-leaves with endless labour and care.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Those pictures were either of the Buddhist-deities or the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">The Buddhists monasteries built in the Pala age are wonderful.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">It is impossible to get the number of the innumerable Buddhist monasteries, temples, abbeys that were built in that age.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">For most of them had been destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Some temples or monasteries have been occupied by another religious-people.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Some monasteries are being discovered now.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">The name of some of the monasteries are known from different source but their actual location could not be detected.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">In the Pala age the Buddhism spread afresh outside India.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">From the books of the travelers and the historians outside India many historical information and truths are being revealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Even from the copper plates, stone slabs etc. correct information of the Pala kings are being collected.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Besides, there were built the monasteries of Dharmapur, Sangharam, Pandu Vihara, Karpathya Vihara, Vajrasan Vihara, Balanda Vihara, Hakanda Vihara and also so many monasteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">No account of innumerable monasteries built during Pala kings could be known.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">In different Buddhistic-books and scriptures a there are seen so may names of monasteries, stupas and temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">The Buddhism was practised in these monasteries, abbeys and temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">During the rules of Pala dynasty for four hundred years, religion was practiced in these monasteries and education in different branches of knowledge was imparted.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">There were many stupas, monasteries and Sangharams in Bihar and West Bengal of India and about all over Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">From all those ruins the Buddha's image, images of gods and goddesses and different ancient glorious deeds have been found.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">These old glorious deeds have been preserved in the museums of the country and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The kings and the rich men built those in different places at different times.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">At that time Buddhism was proclaimed and expanded from Bengal to Bihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">With the practising of lessons the work of composing books also continued.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">There were very rich libraries in all the monasteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Those big monasteries, Sangharams and small monasteries existed like the burning candles of Buddhism.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">From that candle, light of knowledge radiated and spread.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
