<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-christ-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.633</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">224</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2713</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">927</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t47">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Our parents certainly love each and every one of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They want that we obey them and faithfully carry on the responsibilities they give us.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">If we do not do what they tell us to, they certainly get angry at us and if necessary create pressure on us.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Out of love for Israel, God had chosen Saul as king to guide his people.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">God wanted that Saul would remain obedient to him and faithfully fulfill all his responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">But King Saul failed to do as God had commanded him.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Therefore, God was displeased with Saul.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">He ordered Samuel to appoint someone else as king in place of Saul.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Who would be that king ?</sent>
				<sent id ="10">How did Samuel find this king ?</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Listen to the story.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">God said to Samuel, Get some olive-oil and go to Bethlehem, to a man named Jesse.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">I have chosen one of his sons to be king.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Samuel did what the Lord told him to do and went to Bethlehem.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Purify yourselves and come with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Samuel saw Jesse's eldest son and said to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">This must be the one.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">But the Lord warned him saying, Man looks at the outward appearance, but I look at the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">I have rejected him.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Jesse then brought his younger son.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Samuel said God has not chosen him either, One by one Jesse brought his seven sons to Samuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Finally Samuel asked, Do you not have any other son ?</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Jesse said, my youngest son David is not here, he is grazing sheep.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Samuel said, Tell him to come here.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">We wont sit down to eat until he comes.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Jesse then sent for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">He was a handsome, healthy young man.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Samuel took the olive oil and anointed David in front of his brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Immediately the spirit of the Lord took control of David and was with him from that day on.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">What God wants to tell us : God wants to tell us that He has a loving plan for all of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">We cannot be happy if we do not live according to this plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">He wants that we obey Him, if we don't then He will punish us for our disobedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">He also tells us that He chooses us then he will punish us for our disobedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">He also tells us that He chooses us to do his work.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">We should be obedient and faithful in performing our duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">We have to know the will of God for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Many times God's will is revealed to us through various persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">If we are open , we can hear the call of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">He calls us to serve in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">It is our duty to listen and answer to His call.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">When God calls us to do something, His spirit empowers us from within to do it.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Did you ever notice that when someone is in danger or falls sick, all-start praying ?</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Why do they do that ?</sent>
				<sent id ="44">They do that because they believe that God has power to do everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">If he wants, he can deliver us from dangers and heal our sicknesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">What do you do when you are afraid to go some place ?</sent>
				<sent id ="47">You quickly make the sign of the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">For you believe that if he is with you, then no evil spirits can overtake you.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">There are may such incidents which prove our dependence on God.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">One such Example is King David.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Wouldn't you like to know about his trust in God? Listen to this story.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Once again the Philistines gathered for battle against the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Saul also prepared for war.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The Philistines and the Israelites lined up face to face on two hills and set up camps.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">There was a valley between them.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">A great hero named Goliath came out from the Philistine camp to challenge the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Coming out of the camp he stood and shouted at the Israelites, What are you doing there, lined up for battle ?</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Didn't you come to fight with the Philistines ?</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Then why are you standing there ?</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Choose one of your men to fight me.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">If he wins and kills me, we will be your slaves ; but if I win and kill him, you will be our slaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">What's the matter ?</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Isn't there a single man among you who has the courage to fight me ?</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Goliath challenged the Israelites every morning and evening for forty days.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Saul and all the Israelites were terrified.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">David's three elder brothers were in the army.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">One day David came to see his brothers in the camp with some food.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Suddenly the Israelites began to run here and there in fear when they heard Goliath shouting.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">David asked, where did this Philistine get such courage that he defies the army of the living God ?</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Who is he ?</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Eliab, David's eldest brother, got angry and said, what are you doing here ?</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Who is taking care of those sheep of your out there in the wilderness ?</sent>
				<sent id ="73">You cheeky brat, you !</sent>
				<sent id ="74">You just came to watch the fighting!</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But Saul had already heard about David.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">He wanted to see him .</sent>
				<sent id ="77">David went up to him and said, Your Majesty, I will go and fight him.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Saul said, How could you fight him ?</sent>
				<sent id ="79">You're just a boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">But he has been a soldier all his life'.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">David said, 'One day I was grazing my father's sheep.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Suddenly a lion appeared and started carrying away a lamb.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">I ran after the lion and rescued the lamb from its clutches.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">When the lion came to attack me, I grabbed it by the jaw and tore it apart.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">I will do the same to this Philistine.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">I will save the reputation of the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The king then said to him, Go, and the Lord be with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Then Saul gave David his own sword and armour to wear.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">But David found them too much, for he wasn't used to wearing them.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He said, 'I can't fight with all this' So he took it off.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Then David took his shepherd's stick and sling and went down the stream.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">There he picked up five smooth stones and put them in his bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">With the sling in his hand he walked towards Goliath.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Goliath also started walking towards David.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Seeing that he was so young he said, what's that stick and sling for ?</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Do you think I am a dog ?</sent>
				<sent id ="97">And he called down curses from his God on David.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">He challenged him saying, Come on.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">I will give your body to the birds and dogs to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">You have defied Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Therefore, this very day He will put you in my power.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">I will kill you and I will give your body and the bodies of your soldiers to the vultures and the jackels to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Then the whole world will know that Israel has a God, and He does not need shield or swords to save His people.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">As Goliath started walking towards him , David put his hand into his bag and took out a stone, which he slung at Goliath.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It hit him on the forehead and broke his skull, and Goliath fell face downwards on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">David ran to him, stood over him, took Goliath's sword out of its sheath, and cut off his head.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">When the Philistines saw that their hero was dead, they began to run away.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The men of Israel shouted and ran after them and they killed many of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">When they came back, they looted their camp.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">David picked up Goliath's head and took it to Jerusalem, but he kept his weapons in his own tent.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">God wants to tell us that when He is with us we can win any battles in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">But we need courage, confidence and trust in God.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">We have to be prepared to face injustices and oppressions.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">We get the strength to do this if we keep close contact with God in our daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Then he speaks to us in our hearts and shows us the way to defeat injustices and evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">God wants us to have faith and trust in Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">He is always with us and He loves us.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">So He wants that we always involve ourselves actively in good works and live fearlessly.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">He who has God on his side does not need any shield or sword.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Lord God, give us the strength to do everything in your name.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">I believe that you are with me at every moment and every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Help me to put my faith and trust in you as I struggle to face the challenges of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Help me to be prepared to lay down my life for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">This I pray in the name of Jesus the Lord of life Amen.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">All of us are created by one and the same God.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It is He who created the earth and gave each one equal rights and duties to preserve and enjoy it.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">In the Bible we read that human beings, on account of their greed, instead of preserving the earth, destroys it.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Human beings are never happy with what God gives them.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">They do injustice to one another .</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Out of selfishness they do harm to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">As a result there is unrest and chaos in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Even today we find lack of peace and harmony in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">We see that the weak being exploited by the strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Many innocent people become victims of false conspiracies and suffer death.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Many poor people are unjustly deprived of their rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">On account of false witness truth is proved to be wrong in the eyes of law, We have such a story in the Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">King Ahab illegally occupied a piece of land that belonged to Naboth who was innocent and then he killed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Would you like to know about that sad story ?</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Naboth had a vineyard.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">It was near the palace of King Ahab.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">I will give you a better vineyard for it, or, if you prefer, I will pay you a fair price.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Naboth answered : I inherited this vineyard from my ancestors.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The Lord forbid that I should let you have it.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Ahab went home, depressed and angry over what Naboth had said to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">He lay down on his bed, facing the wall and would not eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">His wife Jezebel went to him and asked, Why are you so depressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Why wont you eat ?</sent>
				<sent id ="148">He answered, Because of what Naboht said to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Queen Jezebel replied, Well, are you the king or arent you?</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Get out of bed, cheer up and eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">I will get you Naboth's vineyard.'</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Then she wrote some letters, signed them with Ahab's name, sealed them with his seal, and sent them to the officials and leading citizens.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The letters said: Proclaim a day of fasting, call the people together and give Naboth the place of honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Get a couple of scoundrels to accuse him to his face of cursing God and the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Then take him out of the city and stone him to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The officials and leading citizens of the town did what Jezebel had commanded.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">They proclaimed a day of fasting called the people together and gave Naboth the place of honour .</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The two scoundrels publicly accused him of cursing God and the king, and so he was taken outside the city and stoned to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The message was sent to Jezebel that Naboth had been put to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">As soon as Jezebel received the message, she said to Ahab, Naboth is dead .</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Now go and take possession of the vineyard which he refused to sell to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">At once Ahab went to the vineyard to take possession of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Then the Lord said to Elijah the prophet from Tishbe, Go to king Ahab of Samaria.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">You will find him in Naboth's vineyard, about to take possession of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Tell him that I, the Lord, say to him, After murdering the man, are you taking over his property as well ?</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Tell him that this is what I say: In the very place that the dogs licked up Naboth's blood they will lick up your blood!'</sent>
				<sent id ="167">You have done what is wrong in the Lord's sight.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">So the Lord says to you, 'I will bring disaster on you.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">I will do away with you and get rid of every male in your family.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">For you have stirred up may anger by leading Israel into sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">And concerning Jezebel, the Lord says that dogs will eat her body near the walls of that city.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">When Elijah finished speaking, Ahab tore his clothes, took them off, and put on sackcloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He refused food, slept in the sackcloth, and went about gloomy and depressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Then the Lord said to the prophet Elijah.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Have you noticed how Ahab has humbled himself before me ?</sent>
				<sent id ="176">God wants to tell us that we should be happy with what we have.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">We should not desire another man's possessions.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Greed seduces us to do evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">If I cause harm to the society or to any person for my selfish interest, then God will punish me.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">However, if we are repentant and confess our sins, God will forgive us.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">God sees everything and he warns us that we should do no harm to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">A leaf was hanging from a branch of a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The Gentle breeze whispered to its ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">What's the use in hanging from a dirty branch ?</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Come on with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">At first the leaf would not agree to the proposal.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">But the breeze kept insisting.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Finally the leaf agreed to give up the security of the branch and go wherever the breeze would lead it, hoping to enjoy unknown pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">So it began to fly happily a long distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">But on the way the breeze stopped all of a sudden.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">And the leaf fell into a ditch full of stench.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Sad and depressed, it began to accuse the breeze.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">But the breeze would not listen to what was being said.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">What did you understand from the story ?</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Such things happen to many children.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">They are seduced to give up the security of truth and are led to dangerous paths of uncertainty.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Consequently they suffer for their mistakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Do you like to know what temptation is ?</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Temptation is attraction (attachment) to sin and evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Temptations are man's enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Temptations lead us to sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Pride, laziness, bad habits, bad thoughts and desires give rise to temptations.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Seductions of the world, bad companions, evil desires and greed, corruption and filthy environment in the society can lead to temptations.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">How can we be saved when we fall into temptations ?</sent>
				<sent id ="205">One of the means is to repent.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Repentance is sorrow for our sins and faults.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">We repent for our sins because by disobeying God's commandments we displease Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Through sorrow we hate sins and promise not to sin any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">We should acquire the virtue of self-control.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">We should repent for our evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">we should obe y our conscience.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">When temptations come, we should seek advice form wise persons and experienced respectable elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">W e should be faithful to our daily prayers so that we can receive strength to do good and a void evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">We should seek to do justice and receive justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">We should shun the company of bad people and evil friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">we should al ways inspire others to do good.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">We should be ready to tell the truth and be ready to die for the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Keep in mind : No matter how serious the temptations are, as long as you do not consent, you are not guilty.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Only free consent to temptations makes one unholy.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Your life becomes meaningful only when you do good works for others.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">But when you strive only for your self-interest , then your life becomes a total failure.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">In order to live a good life we need : prayer, repentance for our sins and sincere efforts.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The great poet Shakespeare has said: Act justly, do not be afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The purpose of your life should be: development of your country, search for the Truth and the glory of God.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
