<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-christ-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.73</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">239</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2697</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">863</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t51">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Let me begin by asking you a small question.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Did you ever ask your parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">When they are most pleased with you ?</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Perhaps they are happy when you secure good results in school.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Or when you behave nicely with other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">But most of all they are happy when you do everything as they tell you to.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">When you obey them in everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Then they are most pleased with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In the same way, God is pleased with you when you obey all his commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Let us now listen to one great commandment.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">One day a great Jewish teacher came to Jesus and asked him Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the Law of Moses ?</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Jesus answered, The greatest and the most important commandment is this :</sent>
				<sent id ="13">First, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">And the second is, Love your neighbour as yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">You can certainly tell, why we should love God.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">We should love God because whatever we see around us on this beautiful earth was created by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">And God has created me and all of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Not only did He create us.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">But also sustains us every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">He is good and benevolent.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He created everything so beautiful so that we live happily on this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">God loves us immensely.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">That is why he created the hills and mountains, rivers and seas, wind and breeze, and what not.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">So we can truly say that God loves us.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Therefore, we too should love God.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">There is another reason why we should love God.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">He has given us our parents, our brothers and sisters, Your parents take such good care of you.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">They give us clothes to wear, food to eat, houses to live in etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">They always watch over us and take care of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Hence our parents love for us help us to understand Gods love.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">So, we can honestly thank God and love him for our parents and our family.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">You know that God loves those who do good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">And those who love God, cannot but help the others, If you love God, then you will certainly love human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">This is one of the most beautiful statement in the whole Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Not only is it beautiful, but it is also very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Here it is said that God is our Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">All human beings are his children.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Therefore, we have to love sincerely all the people around us .</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Perhaps you are wondering, how can I love people ?</sent>
				<sent id ="40">You can show your love to other people when you share your meal with them if they are hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Sometimes you can show love for someone by giving a present.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Suppose someone is sick and you go to see that person with your parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">This is also showing love.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">In the Bible there is a story in which a woman named Dorcas always used to think how to love God.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">One day she noticed some children playing whose dresses were torn and shabby.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Some of them were wearing real tattered garments.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">And they did not have good toys to play with.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Suddenly Dorcas realized that she knew how she could love God.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">She made beautiful garments for those children.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Dorcas could do this because she was able to love the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">God wants that everyone loves him.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">He wants all children learn to do good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">We have to decide what we can do to show our love for God.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">We have to remember that those who are merciful, God will show them mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Martin Luther King taught three lessons : Never get angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Do not take revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, let him slap your left cheek too.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He was assassinated in 1967 .</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Before his death he wrote the song.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">we shall overcome some day.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Try to learn this song, its a source of strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">If someone asks you, who is your neighbour?</sent>
				<sent id ="63">you would probably say that those who live next to your house are your neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Those who live at a distance form your village or area, would probably never think of them as your neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">In this lesson we will see, who our real neighbour is and what a good neighbour should do.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">There was once a man who was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Out of fear he was walking fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">For the place was hilly and the road was dangerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Sometimes the road was steep and again sometimes it was very narrow .</sent>
				<sent id ="70">On this dark and lonely road there were some caves as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Robbers used to make their dens in the caves.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Whenever they got an opportunity, they would come out of the caves and attack the passers by and take away all their belongings.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Afraid of possible dangers, the man was walking fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">He came to a turn which was kind of deserted.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He began to feel uneasy.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">All of a sudden he heard a noise from the back.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">As he looked around to see, robbers came out of the caves from two sides of the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">They caught the man and threw him down on the rocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">They beat him up badly and took away everything he had.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Then they escaped leaving the man half dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The wounded man was bleeding profusely.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He became very weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">He tried to get up, but found no strength to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He thought he would surely die.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">So he lay down and kept groaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Once he thought to himself, if perchance someone come along this road may be he will have mercy on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">After quite some time he heard the noise of someone coming towards him.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">With much difficulty he turned his head to see who it was.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">He saw a priest coming.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He thought the priest would certainly have pity on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">But when the priest saw the man, he walked on by, on the other side.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The priest should have helped the wounded man, but he didn't .</sent>
				<sent id ="93">So the poor man got discouraged.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Once again he thought that he would surely have to die on the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">But again he heard the noise of someone walking fast.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The wounded man tried to groan louder to draw attention of the passerby, but he couldn't.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">There came a Levite on the same road.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">He went over and looked at the man, and then walked on by, on the other side.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The wounded man kept lying on the road in this lonely hilly place.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Due to pain and chill he could not move his limbs, Suddenly he again heard some noise as if more than one man walking.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Then he realized someone was riding a donkey.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The man was a Samaritan.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">There used to be great hostilities between the Jews and the Samaritans.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">So the wounded person thought, the Samaritan will certainly not help him.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">But the Samaritan got down from his donkey and kneeling beside the man began to clean his wounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">He applied medicine and oil on his wounds and bandaged them.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Then he wrapped him in warm clothes and put him on his donkey.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He took him to an inn, where he gave him food to eat and took care of him the whole night.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">On the following morning the Samaritan had to go.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">So he took out two silver coins and gave them to the innkeeper and asked him to take care of the man.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">He further said that if the money was not enough, he would pay the balance on his way back.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The Samaritan takes the wounded man to an inn.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Now let us see, why that Samaritan was called good.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He was a man who did good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He always thought of ways and means of helping people.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">There was no difference to him between who was his own and who was not.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">He considered everybody equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">And he extended his help to everyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It is not that the Samaritan had lots of money, but whatever money he had, he spent it for the wounded man.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Did you consider another thing?</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Perhaps the Samaritan was on his way to some urgent business.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He could have been in hurry to get there.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Besides, to help a wounded man can get someone implicated in the police case.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">He might have to appear before the court many times to give witness.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Or, even he could have fallen in the hands of the robbers.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">But being a good neighbour, he did not think of any of these possibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He considered the wounded man lying on the road as his own.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Even though the Samaritan did not live anywhere near the house of the wounded man, still they are mutually neighbours to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">One who always stays by your side in times of sorrow as in times of joy, is your real neighbour.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Jesus helps us even today.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">He is our friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">He helps us when we work.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">He helps us to be merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">He wants that we help every one and he too will help us.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Can we not extend our helping hands to everyone ?</sent>
				<sent id ="136">A blind beggar and his wife did not get even a penny walking from door to door all day long.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar was a very kind hearted man.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">So the blind beggar went near him.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Vidyasagar welcomed him warmly and made him sit down.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">He also gave him some money.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">But again he thought that the beggar and his wife did not eat anything all day.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">And it is not certain when they will get something to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">So Vidyasagar asked the blind beggar, What do you like to eat most?</sent>
				<sent id ="144">With a grin on his face, the beggar replied, Babu, I love to eat thin bread and curd.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">I wish I could have some.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Then he cooked some thin bread and brought some curd from the bazaar.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The beggar and his wife ate it to their hearts content.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Then handing them two takas he said in a mild voice, You come here every Sunday.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">I will feed you thin bread and curd.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Dear Lord God, teach me to love everyone as myself.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Teach me how we can love everyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">We wish to show kindness to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">So you bless us.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">In your family, your parents and your brothers and sisters live together.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Many families also have the grandparents living with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">There is a great joy in living together as a family.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">There those who are older take care of the younger ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">And you take care of your younger brothers and sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">If it happens that there is nobody to take care of someone , then you feel sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Today we will talk about a boy who left his family and went away to a distant land.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Let us now listen to the story of that family.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In that family everything was going well and everyone was happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">There was no lack of food, comfort and other things.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">There were two sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The older son was a hard- worker and he was very faithful.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">He used to work hard in his father's fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">But the other son was very different.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">He was not happy at home, he did not like to participate in the household activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He only squandered money with his friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">He had a strong urge to go away to a distant place and enjoy life.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">One day he asked his father to give him his portion of the inheritance.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The father was very grieved when he heard his son talking this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He never wanted his son to go away.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He had plans to divide his property when the sons grow up and learn how to manage things.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">But the younger son was adamant.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">He said he had to have his money and property.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">So the father unwillingly gave him his portion of the inheritance.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">With his money and bag and baggage, the younger son went away to a distant land.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">There he got many friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">He began to squander his money by doing the things that his father never wanted him to do at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">In this way he spent up all his money.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">How long can money last if one is a spendthrift ?</sent>
				<sent id ="183">He had no money any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">At that time there broke out a famine in that region.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The prices of things went up.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">There was no employment and there was no food.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">When his money got exhausted, the boy began to look for work, but found none.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">How then could he live ?</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He began to starve.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">His clothes became old and tattered, and everyone started avoiding him.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">In order to satisfy his hunger he began to work as a caretaker for animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">On the day he had left his home, he had beautiful and clean clothes on.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He was good looking and healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">But now he looked very dirty and sickly and his clothes looked like rags.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">When his condition kept getting worse, he was reminded of his good days at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">He remembered how much his father loved him and the servants took such good care of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">So he began to repent for having left home in such a way.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">He thought to himself, I am suffering so much here, but at home many servants live much better.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">He asked himself, what's the sense in staying here ?</sent>
				<sent id ="200">He would rather go back home and tell his father, Father, I have sinned against God and against you.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">I am no linger fit to be called your son; treat me as one of your hired workers .</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He did what he thought he would do.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">He began to return home with his sickly body and dirty clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">As he approached the door of the house, he thought he would find the door locked.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">For nobody, even his parents, would wait for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">But what a surprise!</sent>
				<sent id ="207">When he came to the door, he found it open.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Going a bit further he saw his father waiting at the door.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The father ran to his son, embraced him and kissed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The son broke out in tears and started saying, Father, I have sinned against God and against you.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">I am no longer fit to be called your son.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Now tell me, how did you like the story of the lost son ?</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Aren't there many other young people like him who get lost ?</sent>
				<sent id ="214">This prodigal son lost his health, his money, his prestige, and many other things.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Moreover, he had to engage himself in such tasks that did not befit him.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">But he had no choice.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Whenever we disobey our parents, we face similar problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Notice another thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The son did not regain what he lost in the foreign land.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Whatever mischief he did and wasted the hard-earned money when he was away, kept pricking his conscience.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">He found it very painful.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">God loves us so much that he wants all of us come back to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Just as the father in the story was anxiously waiting for the return of his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">So does God wait for us to come back to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">God forgives us our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">However, we have to repent for our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">In the story, the son lost many things because he did what he was not supposed to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">If we do not repent, we also have to suffer the consequences of our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">God truly forgives us our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">When we repent, he always forgives.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Once a young girl begged Emperor Napoleon for her father's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Her father had committed offense against his position in the army.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Therefore, he was given capital punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Napoleon told the girl, Your father ran away from his duty twice.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">How do you dare to ask me to forgive him?</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The girl replied, Sir, I know he made a mistake, Therefore, I am not asking you to do justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">I am begging your mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The girls prayer was granted.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Saint Francis said, Every good thing comes from the Lord; bad things come from me.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
