<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-christ-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.758</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">296</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3450</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1042</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t52">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">You must have seen a Poor Box.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Usually they are kept in front of the churches.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Our parents offer money in the poor box.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The children as well as their parents and grandparents contribute in the poor box.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">While offering gifts, everyone feels good.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The Lord Jesus has taught us a beautiful lesson about how to give alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Can you tell, why people give alms?</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Perhaps some give it because they are moved by the suffering of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Others may give it to obtain rewards.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">But Jesus has given a new teaching about almsgiving.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">At first he said, it is a good thing to give alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">It is right and good that we give alms because we are moved by the sufferings of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">This is a natural expression of our love.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">But there are two other things to be considered: why and how we should give alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Let us look at these two points.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Let me give you some information.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">At the time of Jesus it was customary to give alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">A double-drum was beaten when someone gave alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The sound of that drum was different from any other sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">This drum used to make a prolonged sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">And then the beggars would come forward to receive alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The donors gave alms in order to receive applause from the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">It was not so much for their love for the poor that they gave, as much as to enhance their prestige.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">We could forget about this custom.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Jesus wants to teach us something more.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">In those days there used to be boxes in front of the churches.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Those who came to church, used to contribute money into these boxes.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">These boxes were open on top, just like a flute.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Whenever the coins fell into the box, there used to be loud noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">A bigger coin made a bigger noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">And the bystanders would look at the donors in amazement, and sometimes even make applause.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Let us now listen to what Jesus had to say about almsgiving.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">He said that almsgiving should not be a means of preaching oneself.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Even our intimate friends should not know about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Only God will know it.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Therefore, almsgiving should be in secret.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">A secret giving is a sign of our love for God.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">We should never give alms in order to get approbation of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Therefore, Jesus says, When you give alms, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Do you know what the first sin of the apostolic church was?</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The first sin of the apostolic church was the lying of Ananias and Sapphira in connection with almsgiving.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They had received a good amount of money from the sale of their property.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Since the land was theirs, the money from the sale also belonged to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">They decided they would keep some money back and tell the church that what they gave was all.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">They committed the two sins that Jesus talked about.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">They made a big show of offering the money they received from the sale of their lands in order to get applause.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">They told a lie by saying that what they gave was all, even though they kept back some of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">On account of committing these two sins in connection with almsgiving, they brought down a curse upon themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Now let me tell you something more.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The main purpose of giving alms is, to share the sufferings of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">When I show kindness to anyone, it should be God's kindness that I show.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">God is our Father, he has blessed us immensely.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">By giving alms to the needy we show that we-are grateful to God for his many blessings.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">One day a beggar went around in the village begging.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Suddenly he saw the king coming towards him wearing a costly dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The beggar expected to receive something from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">He thought to himself that his bad days were over.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">When the king came near, the beggar extended his hands to receive alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">At once the king also extended his hands towards the beggar and said, What will you give me?</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The beggar was astounded.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Then he picked up a grain of wheat from his bag and gave it to the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The king blessed the grain of wheat and gave it back to the beggar.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">When he came back home in the evening and opened his bag, he found that a single grain of wheat had turned into gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Then the beggar began to cry.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">He said to himself, How foolish I am!</sent>
				<sent id ="66">I wish I had given him the whole bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Once upon a time, a priest asked a rich businessman to contribute some money to a rehabilitation project for the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The rich man wrote a letter saying he would not contribute.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The priest replied, I would like to thank you for teaching me the essence of the Christian living which I had never heard before.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">You are right in saying that to live for Jesus means begging constantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Did you ever see anyone doing morning exercise daily?</sent>
				<sent id ="72">You must have.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">There is something to be said about this exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">No matter how much you exercise, there comes a time when there is no more growth in our bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">There is a limit to our height.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">But in the case of spiritual growth, there is no limit.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">We can continue to grow as long as we live.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">How strong we will grow spiritually does not depend on our wishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Let us learn something about a new law of spirituality.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Jesus himself has given us the law.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It is the opposite of revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">This old law sounds very bad, doesn't it'?</sent>
				<sent id ="83">But that was the law at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">People were determined to take revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">They would not rest in peace until they took revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">But then there was some progress in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The amount of punishment for an offense was fixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">This was an attempt to minimize the amount of revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">But Jesus wanted to do more than that.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He wanted to eradicate completely the spirit of revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">He wanted to replace revenge with love.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">He wanted people to be forbearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">He wanted that we uproot the spirit of revenge from our hearts.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Jesus did not want simply to uproot the spirit of revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">He wanted to do something greater than that.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">He said, If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, let him slap your left cheek too.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Do you think this is impossible?</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Can anyone be so tolerant?</sent>
				<sent id ="99">We can learn something from the life of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Jesus was taken to the High Priest for a trial.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">When he was talking to the High Priest, one of the servants standing nearby slapped Jesus on the cheek.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Jesus told him, If I have said anything wrong, tell everyone here what it was.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">But if I am right in what I have said, why do you hit me.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Here Jesus did not turn the other cheek.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Do you think Jesus acted against his own teaching?</sent>
				<sent id ="106">No. What he wanted to mean is this: we have to confront insult with love and tolerance.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In this way the opponent will get an answer to his action.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Remember, we cannot learn to, be tolerant in one day.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">It is by practicing with patience that we learn to do so.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Jesus said, If someone takes you to court to sue you for your shirt, let him have your coat as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">At the time of Jesus, people used to wear a long loose gown.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">During the winter season this was good substitute for a blanket.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Do you remember, when Jesus was crucified, the soldiers took his gown?</sent>
				<sent id ="114">But Jesus prayed even for them, for their forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He did not resist when they tortured him.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">On the contrary, he prayed for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Jesus told us to do another thing: If someone forces you to carry his pack one kilometre, carry it two kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">You are probably wondering what that means.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">In the ancient times, those who carried letters were known as postmen.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Any one of the occupation troops could force someone to carry his pack one kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Jesus taught us to do something more to show our tolerance.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The law may require you to go one kilometre, but you can surprise someone by gladly going another kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">If someone tries to waste our time and destroy our property, we cannot lose patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">We have to seek ways and means to serve those who do harm to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Walking one kilometre is for the king, that is his privilege.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">But the other kilometre is for God.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It is God's due.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">A flower was about to blossom under a large tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">One day the tree said to the flower, Don't you feel ashamed when you look at me as a flower?</sent>
				<sent id ="130">You are so tiny and sitting there useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Look at me, how great I am!</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The flower said, No, you shouldn't say that.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">God has made us both and set us up on a fixed place.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">He has given you strength, but he has given me sweetness.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Therefore, I show my gratitude to him by spreading fragrance.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">God has shown his mercy to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Hence we too should show mercy to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The important lesson is this: the disciples of Jesus have to do much more than what the others do.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">We have to turn the other cheek, we have to give up our coat, we have to carry an extra kilometre.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">All these we have to do without grumbling.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">What Jesus wanted was not control or moderation.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">He wanted to destroy the spirit of revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">He wanted to replace revenge with love and tolerance.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">I am yours, Lord, I am only yours for eternity; I believe and I desire to live close to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">As Christians there is one prayer that we say more than any other prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Some of us do it from the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Others do it because they have it memorized.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Jesus himself has taught us this prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Since it is he who taught us this prayer, we call it The Lord's Prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It is a small prayer, it takes just one or two minutes to say it.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">But with these few words Jesus expressed meaning that is deeper than the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Only Jesus could have expressed such deep meaning in so few words.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">There are six intercessions in this short prayer: three of them concern God and His glory.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The other three concern human beings and their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Did you notice that in the Lord's prayer there is no scope for selfishness?</sent>
				<sent id ="156">God is not called my Father', but Our Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">What does this mean?</sent>
				<sent id ="158">It means that all of us belong to Gods family.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Whenever we call God Our Father, Gods love inspires us all from within.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">So we understand that his dignity is far above that of the human beings who are created.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Do you know the three intercessions that concern God and His glory?</sent>
				<sent id ="162">They are: May your holy name be honoured; may your Kingdom come; may your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">There is a great variety of names.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">And each name has a particular dignity.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">In a family, the father's name is on top.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">In his own family his name is on the top.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">A king is the lord of his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">His dignity is not the same in the other kingdoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">But God's name is to be glorified on earth as it is in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Where there is God's peace, charity, justice and love, there is God's Kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">At this point you might ask, What is God the Father's will?</sent>
				<sent id ="172">God's will is the same on earth as it is in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He wants always obey him in everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Now let us look at the three intercessions for human beings: Give us today the food we need.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Forgive us the wrongs we have done, as we forgive the wrongs that others have done to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Do not bring us to hard testing, but keep us safe from the Evil One.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Please look at these three intercessions once again.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The word my is not there in this prayer; there are only our and we.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">What does this mean?</sent>
				<sent id ="180">This means that all of us are members of God's family and so we have to think of one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">We have to think of the needs of everyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">What a wonderful message Jesus gives us in this prayer that he has taught us.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">It says, give us today the food we need.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">We ask the Heavenly Father to give us our daily food.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Now we are asking God to forgive us the wrongs we have done.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Remember, there is physical hunger as well as spiritual hunger.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The latter refers to forgiving and asking for forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Only then we experience the peace of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Now the third intercession : Do not bring us to hard testing, but keep us safe from the Evil One.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Do you know how gold is purified?</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Gold is tested by fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Similarly temptations may come in order to make us pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">We can get sick, we may face dangers, we may experience suffering and pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">But if we are rooted in God's love, we can overcome all temptations.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Right after he taught this prayer, Jesus told us how we should pray.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">He told a beautiful parable to explain himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">One day a poor man had a guest come to his house at dead of night.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The family had their supper and they all turned off the lights and went to sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">And there was no food left in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">But how can he let his guest go without food?</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Then he thought of a rich friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He asked his guest to wait and he went to this friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">He knocked at the door and said.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Friend, I have a guest in my house at this late hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">I have no food in the house to offer him.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Would you kindly lend me three loaves of bread.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">From inside the room the friend replied, It's so late at night!</sent>
				<sent id ="208">My children and I are in bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">I can't get up and give you anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Don't bother me.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">But the man kept insisting.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">So his friend could not ignore the man's request.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Never before did this poor man ask for anything in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">So he got up and gave him three loaves of bread.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The poor man thanked his friend and went back to his own house to entertain his guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The guest who came at dead of night is a needy person.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">We see so many of them around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The rich friend in the parable is God himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">We are the poor friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The guest does not know God.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">But we know our guest and we also know God.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">If we pray, God will bless us and give us his gifts according to our needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The three loaves of bread stand for physical, mental and spiritual food.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The spiritual growth of a man means development of the whole world.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">On the other hand, the downfall of a man means fall of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The purpose of human life is to establish God's Kingdom on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">This is realized when, we give up selfishness, jealousy and excesses and instead live a life of love, brotherhood, freedom and moderation.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Ask, and you will receive; seek, and you will find; knock, and the door will be opened to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Suppose a friend of yours has suddenly said something against you.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Perhaps you did not mind it the first time.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">But if he keeps talking against you repeatedly, how will you feel?</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Will you be able to talk to him normally?</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Will you be able to forgive him?</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Or, suppose you remember a time when you did something wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Did you receive forgiveness for the wrong you did?</sent>
				<sent id ="236">All of us recite a prayer daily.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">We call this The Lord's Prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Jesus himself taught this prayer to his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">In that prayer we say to God: Forgive us the wrongs we have done, as we forgive the wrongs that others have done to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">According to Jesus this is a great spiritual law.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">If we do not forgive the wrongs that others have done to us, then the door of God's forgiveness becomes closed to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Jesus taught us a lesson about forgiveness on a particular occasion.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Once a Pharisee, named Simon, invited Jesus to have dinner with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">In those-days people used to sit on mats, rather than on chairs, to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">If it was a rich man's house, there would be soft cushion to sit on.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The cushions were set up in the room in such a way that three sides would be blocked and only one side would remain open.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The women or the servants used to pass through this open space to serve the dishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The guests used to sit on the cushion leaning on pillows and then eat from the table with their right hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">This was, like resting while eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Jesus started eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Suddenly a woman came and kneeling down behind Jesus began to weep so much that his feet got wet by her tears.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">She unlocked her tresses and dried his feet with her hair and kissed them, and poured a bottle of perfume on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">When the Pharisee saw this, he said to himself, If this Jesus really were a prophet, he would know that she was a bad woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Jesus sensed what Simon was thinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">He said to him, Simon, I have something to tell you.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">One man had lent some money to two persons: Tk. 5000 to one, and Tk.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">500 to the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Neither of them was able to repay the loan he had taken before the date expired.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">So the moneylender had pity on them and cancelled the debts of both.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Which one will love him more?</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Simon replied, The one who was forgiven more.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Jesus said, You are right.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Then he turned to the woman and said to Simon, he who is forgiven little shows only a little love.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">But he who is forgiven much, shows much love.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">You know that there are many ways of expressing love for Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">We can do the kind of works that please God.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Then we can say that we love him.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">We can love and forgive others out of gratitude to Jesus for having forgiven our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">It is rather easy to love those who love us.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">But there may be some people whom you do not like.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">There may be a boy or a girl in school who treated you badly.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Perhaps he or she tried to hit you and made false complaints against you.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">If it is so, what will you do`? Jesus himself gave us the answer.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">He told us to love even our enemies, feed them if they are hungry and give them drink if they are thirsty.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">We should love and forgive others just as God has forgiven us.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Jesus himself is the true model of forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">While he was on this earth, he forgave all those who did wrongs against him.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">His first words on the Cross were: Father, forgive them.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Remember, he said these words from the Cross-when he was suffering immensely.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Many were insulting him and teasing him.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Even his own people had deserted him.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">He was hanging on the Cross as a culprit.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">And yet Jesus prayed for forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">From this example we should learn to forgive.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Forgiving does not mean merely forgetting the wrong that has been done.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">It means to accept God's love and give such love to one who has done wrong to us, so that one is converted.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Just as Christ's forgiveness is precious to us, so should our forgiving others be precious in our life:</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The more you learn to forgive others, the more you will see how precious God's forgiveness is to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">When the missionaries went to the land of the Eskimos, there was no word for forgiveness in their language.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">So they began to think how the meaning of forgiveness could be communicated to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">They coined a new word.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">In the language of the Eskimos the meaning of the word is: to be unable to think about the matter any longer.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">What a beautiful expression!</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Forgiveness is such a virtue that once it is given or received, there is no longer any need to think about the matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">It is not easy to forgive, but this is God's commandment.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">If we wish to please God, then we must forgive.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
