<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-christ-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.658</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">238</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2815</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">852</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t48">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Today I will tell you the best story of submission to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">It is a story of complete submission to God's will in deep faith in order to help fulfill God's designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">In Galilee of Palestine, there is a small hilly village called Nazareth.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">A girl named Mary used to live in this village.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">She was simple, holy and chaste.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">She had deep faith in God.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">She as a Virgin, not yet married.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">She was to get married within a few days, She was engaged to Joseph a young man of that village.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Joseph was a descendant of King David.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">He was a carpenter.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Mary used to pray alone every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">She used to tell God everything in prayer in silence.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">One evening she began to pray as usual.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">She spent a long time in deep meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Suddenly when she opened her eyes she saw the house flooded with a bright light.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In the middle of the light she saw something like a beautiful statue.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Mary realized it was an angel.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">God sent Angel Gabriel to Mary.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">She was deeply troubled.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The Angel realized Mary was troubled.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The Angel greeted Mary saying, The Lord is with you and has greatly blessed you.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">When she heard this, Mary got frightened all the more.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">She felt uneasy.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">She began to wonder, why is the Angel greeting her this way ?</sent>
				<sent id ="25">When Angel Gabriel realized that Mary was perplexed, he said to her : Mary , don't be afraid, God has been gracious to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">You will become pregnant and give birth to a son, and you will name him Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High God.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Being frightened all the more, Mary said: What kind of talk is this !</sent>
				<sent id ="29">How can this be?</sent>
				<sent id ="30">I am not married yet.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The Angel said, The Holy Spirit will come on you, and God's power will rest upon you.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">For this reason the holy child will be called the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">There is nothing that God cannot do.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Jesus birth did not take place in a natural way.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">God himself formed Jesus in the womb of Mary.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Therefore, he is the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Coming back to herself, Mary understood clearly what the Angel had said.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">She said to the Angel, Behold, I am the Lords servant; may it happen to me as you have said.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Then the Angel disappeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Mary did not see him any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">There was darkness in the room again.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">But Mary's heart was filled with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">She kept thinking to herself, how fortunate I am, Truly I will be the mother of God!</sent>
				<sent id ="44">God himself will come to my lap in the form of a child!</sent>
				<sent id ="45">What a wonderful grace this is, how wonderful.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Elizabeth, the wife of priest Zachariah, was a cousin sister of Mary.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">She used to live in a village in Judea surrounded by hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">After receiving the message from the Angel .</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Mary went in haste to her elder cousin sister Elizabeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">She related to her everything that had happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">When Elizabeth heard Mary's words, the child in her womb leapt for joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">You are blessed, for you have believed that what God has told you will be fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Then Mary praised God.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">She thanked and glorified Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">For God is sending His only Son Jesus Christ to this world to save mankind from their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">And God had chosen Mary to be the mother of the Son of God, the Saviour Jesus Christ and honoured her.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">From now on all people will honour her and call her blessed.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">This is a wonderful grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The name Mary means honourable.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Mary spent three months with Elizabeth and then went back to her home.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">God chose Mary to be the mother of Jesus Christ, for she was pure and holy; she had deep faith and love.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Mary was obedient to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">She always put God's will first in her life.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">She knew that if she conceived while she was a virgin, people would condemn her.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Even Joseph, to whom she was engaged, might not marry her.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">But Mary was not concerned about what would happen and what people would say.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Mary submitted to God's will relying on her deep faith and trust in God.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">She surrendered totally to God's will relying on her deep faith and trust in God.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">She surrendered totally to God's plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Therefore, she had the courage to tell the Angel, I am the Lords servant;</sent>
				<sent id ="71">may it happen to me as you have said She knew God could do no harm to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Mary is a model of faith for all believers of all ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Mary cooperated with God in the realization of His divine plan of salvation by fully consenting to His will.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">God wants that like Mary we also remain simple, holy and chaste.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">For this we need to pray to God regularly with deep faith and love.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">We should obey God in everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Like Mary we should surrender ourselves totally to God's will.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Anyone who, like Mary, submits fully to God will find Jesus as Saviour and will be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">We should not forget God in times of joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Like Mary we should praise and thank God for all His graces and blessings.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">God is Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Nothing is impossible to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Jesus is the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">We should whole heartedly welcome Jesus, the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">We should not be preoccupied with our self-interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">On the contrary, we should put God's will and commandments first in our life and live according to His will.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Disregarding our self-interest and the opinions of people, we should give priority to obeying God's will in our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">God is greater than man.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">When we are in trouble, instead of depending on our own strength we should depend on God's help.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Like Mary, we should always be obedient to God and cooperate in his work.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">If we wish to obtain God's mercy, grace and blessings, then we have to be obedient to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Napolean the Emperor once said : Give me good mothers and I will give you a good nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Good mother produce good children.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">For the first education of children begins when they are on the lap of their mothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">And good education enables children to get good formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">And good children build up a good nation, a good society.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">In the formation of character the role of a mother is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">At the early age children spend their time near their mothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Hence a mother exercises the most influence over her children, Children love their mothers more than anyone else and they accept them as their model.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Mary was the mother of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Mary was an exemplary mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Her own childhood in an ideal family environment helped her become an exemplary mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Jesus life was influenced by his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">When we look at Mary carefully, we see that she had all the qualities that an ideal mother should have.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">She was simple and very religious.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">She was pure and holy.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">She had great love for God.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">She was obedient to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">She did everything in accordance with God's commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">She also had a deep knowledge of the Scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">She used to observe faithfully all the laws, norms and rites prescribed by religion .</sent>
				<sent id ="112">She had great faith and trust in God.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">For this, God chose her to be the mother of His Son.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Mary is blessed among women.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">God came to this earth as a Son of Mary.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Obedience and submission to God's will characterized her whole life.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">She had no hesitation in giving full consent to God's will.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">By surrendering herself completely to God she helped fulfill God's will on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">She had a strong prayer life.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">She used to open up her mind to God in prayer and meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">We find these qualities of Mary reflected in Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He learned them form his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He became an ideal Son of an ideal mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Mary was an ideal mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">She used to observe faithfully all the commandments and prescriptions of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">According to the Law of Moses, the first male child was to be consecrated to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">After the birth of a child, the mother had to go to the Temple to be purified and to present the child to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">On the eighth day after the birth of Jesus, Mary went to the Temple in Jerusalem to fulfill the prescriptions of the law of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Mary, the mother of Jesus, had a great devotion to and love for God.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Hence Mary and Joseph used to go to Jerusalem every year to celebrate the Passover Feast.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Their purpose was to show their gratitude to God for all the favours they received from Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">As a token of gratitude they used to offer the best portion of the first fruits of their field to God and sing His praises.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">When Jesus was twelve years old, Mary and Joseph went to Jerusalem along with their Son for the Feast of the Passover.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">As an ideal mother, Mary considered it her sacred duty to accompany her Son to Jerusalem to keep the Feast of the Passover.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Mary was always faithful in obeying the prescriptions of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">When the festival was over, it was time to return home.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">But Jesus did not go home with his parents , he stayed back in Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">His parents did not know about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">When they traveled a good distance, they realized that Jesus was not with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">So they became anxious and worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">They went back to Jerusalem searching for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">After three days they found him in the Temple of Jerusalem sitting with the Jewish teachers (Scribes), listening to them and asking questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The teachers also asked him questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">All who heard him were amazed at his knowledge of the Scriptures and his intelligent answers.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">How did he get such knowledge of the Scriptures in the small village.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">He must have certainly gotten this from his mother when he was a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Mary herself must have had great knowledge of the Scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">She explained to him the intricate doctrine in the Scriptures when he was very young.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">And so he was able to answer questions raised by the teachers and also ask them questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The Scribes were amazed at his wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">There was no other way in the small village.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Nazareth, to get training in the Scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Mary was an ideal mother .</sent>
				<sent id ="154">She fulfilled her duty by imparting to her Son, Jesus, knowledge of the Scriptures since his childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Mary and Joseph were astonished when they saw him sitting among the scribes and heard him speaking.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">As an affectionate and responsible mother, Mary wanted to take her Son home when she found him .</sent>
				<sent id ="157">As an obedient child of his mother, Jesus went back from Jerusalem to Nazareth with Mary.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Under her loving care and guidance until he was thirty years old, Jesus grew in age and wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">He learned from his mother all the best qualities that a human person should have.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">An ideal mother gives an ideal formation to her children.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Mary is a shining example of on ideal mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">God wants that we too try to acquire all the good qualities that Mary had.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Like Mary, we too should learn to be obedient to God since our childhood and live a holy and spotless life.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">We should learn to fulfill all the responsibilities that God has given us on this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">From our very childhood our lives should be ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">We should try to acquire both earthly knowledge and spiritual wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Through reading and study of the holy Scriptures, we should try to understand the fundamental doctrines of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The Children must love and obey their parents .</sent>
				<sent id ="169">And the parents have to fulfill their responsibilities towards their children.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">In our family we should sincerely fulfill our duties towards one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Let Mary and Jesus Christ be our model.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Let our family be an ideal Christian family.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Mary is blessed among women, and blessed her Son Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Do you know, what the most precious thing on earth is ?</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The most precious thing on earth is a mother and her motherly love.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">All the earthly things together cannot be compared to a mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">A mother and her affectionate love are the most precious things.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Nothing is an obstacle on the way of a mother's love for her children.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Today I would like to tell you a sad story of an affectionate mother standing near her dying Son.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">There was a place called Golgotha on Mount Calvary where men used to be crucified.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Jesus too was taken to Golgotha to be crucified.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">When they reached the place, the soldiers made him lie down on the cross and fixed it with nails .</sent>
				<sent id ="183">When the soldiers completed their task by lifting up the body of Jesus on the cross, it was almost mid-day.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">There was a large crowd around the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Everyone's eyes were fixed on Jesus hanging on the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">There were also crucified two other men, one on each side, with Jesus between them.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">They were known criminals.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">But Jesus was innocent and sinless.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He was crucified between the criminals to show that he too was a criminal.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Jesus was hanging from the cross, with his hands and feet nailed to the wood of the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">He was suffering unbearable pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">He felt thirsty.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Blood was streaming down the wounds of his hands and feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">In agony and pain, Jesus was gradually sinking to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">In such a situation, Jesus mother could not remain unmoved.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">For she was such an affectionate mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Disregarding all dangers and fears, she hurried to Calvary.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">A mother's heart counts no cost.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">How could she stay away when her Son was in such a misery ?</sent>
				<sent id ="200">All the dear ones of Jesus left him.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Even his beloved disciples are not there.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">They all fled in fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">But his mother did not leave him.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">At this critical moment of Jesus his mother is near him, all the others are gone.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Jesus is not alone at the moment of death, his mother is present there.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The power of love has drawn her.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Along with Mary came a few women and John, the disciple whom Jesus loved.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Among the women were Salome, his mother's sister and Mary Magdalene out of whom Jesus had chased away seven devils.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Another woman was Mary the mother of James and of Joseph .</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The disciple whom Jesus loved was standing beside Mary, his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">All of these were drawn by love for Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">They came to express their love and devotion to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Mary, the mother of Jesus, was gripped by intense sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Utterly helpless, she was watching her son suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">There was nothing she could do.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Jesus was about to breath his last.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">In a few moments her son will be gone and she will be totally helpless.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">No one was aware of how much time went by while they were looking at this painful sight of the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">In spite of his unbearable pain on the cross, Jesus looked at the people standing nearby.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">He spotted his mother Mary standing among the crowd and the beloved disciple standing next to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">He realized how much his mother was suffering at seeing her Son dying.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Overwhelmed with grief he looked at his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">In spite of his own suffering he did not forget his duty to his mother who was feeling so lonely.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">He was happy to see his beloved disciple John standing near his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">So pointing at him he said to her, Mother , there is your son.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Then he said to his beloved disciple, John, there is your mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Jesus was relived from his anxiety about his mother when he gave her to the care of his beloved disciple, John.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">John clearly understood what Jesus wanted to say.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">So, from that time the disciple took her to live in his home.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">We should be determined to live according to the commandments and wishes of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">We have to try to understand the message of the Bible and pray regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">We should not move away from the love of our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">We should always remain grateful and show respect to our parents for their love and affection for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">We should be obedient to them and fulfill our duties towards them.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Whatever situation we are in, we should not neglect our duties towards our parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Even while dying on the cross Jesus did not forget his duty to his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Just as parents have loving affection towards their children, so should the children have the sense of duty towards their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Respect your father and your mother, so that you may live a long time in the land that God will give you (Exodus 20:12).</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
