<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-christ-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.705</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">242</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2700</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">828</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t50">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">You certainly wish to progress in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">You want to be great and the best.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">If so, you have to learn to be obedient from early age.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The whole life of a person is characterized by obedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">At an early age one has to learn to be obedient to one's parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Under their guidance one has to be formed properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">When you grow up, you have to obey the rules and laws of the society, of your religion and your country.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Obedience is one of the virtues of a good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">You learned earlier that God became man on this earth and took the name Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Therefore, Jesus had all the qualities that a man should naturally have.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Jesus was very obedient since his early childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">You certainly would like to know about Jesus obedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Please listen to this story.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Every year the parents of Jesus went to Jerusalem for the Passover Festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">According to the Jewish law, every male over twelve years of age had to go to the temple to observe the Passover Festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In obedience to the law of religion at the age of twelve Jesus went to Jerusalem with his parents for the Passover Feast.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">This proves that Jesus was obedient to the prescriptions of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Along with Mary and Joseph, Jesus traveled a long distance to Jerusalem to celebrate this feast.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Jerusalem was a beautiful city.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">All the decorations on the occasion of the Feast made the city more beautiful and attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Jesus was overjoyed to see the Temple of God (Temple in Jerusalem) among other buildings.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The roof of the Temple was made of gold and it was the biggest and the most beautiful building in the whole city.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Jesus thought to himself that he is the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">So this is his Father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In order to save mankind he has to leave his earthly parent's house and live in his Father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The days of the festival passed by happily.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Now it is time to return home.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">When Joseph and Mary started back home, the boy Jesus stayed in Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">But Joseph and Mary did not know about this.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">They completed one day's journey thinking that he was going ahead of them along with his companions.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">When they realized that Jesus was not with their friends and relatives, they began to search for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">But he was nowhere to be found.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Joseph and Mary became very worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Uncertainty and fear gripped them.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">They went back to Jerusalem desperately looking for Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">After three days they found Jesus sitting in the Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">All around there many learned men (Scribes) and many people.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Jesus was discussing with them about the holy Scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">He was listening to them and also asking them questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The wise men also asked him many questions and Jesus answered them.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">All who heard him were amazed at his intelligent answers.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They wondered, where did this young boy get so much knowledge of the Scriptures ?</sent>
				<sent id ="43">They did want to let Jesus go.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Mary and Joseph were astonished when they saw him in this situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Then Mary, somewhat sad and disappointed, called him to herself and said, My son, why have you done this to us?</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Your father and I have been terribly worried trying to find you.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Having heard what Mary said, Jesus realized that Mary had forgotten what the Angel had told her about his birth and mission.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">For Jesus father is God himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">He was born of God, therefore, he is God.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Joseph was simply his foster father.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">But his mission is the salvation of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">God sent him for this work.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The Angel had told all these things before Jesus was born.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Therefore, in order to remind Mary the words of the Angel, Jesus said: Why did you have to look for me ?</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Didnt you know that I had to be in my Father's house' .</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Jesus wanted to tell them that he had to leave his earthly parents and go to live in his Father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">It was time for him to his father's house, to the Temple, to work for the salvation of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The Angel had foretold this long ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Mary was frightened when she heard Jesus speaking this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">She remembered everything that the Angel had told her.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">She remained silent.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">No affectionate and loving mother wants to lose her child.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">On the contrary, she wants to strengthen the bond of affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Mary understood and yet not fully.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">She would rather forget everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">When Mary found Jesus, all her sorrow and anxiety disappeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">She understood that Jesus was not disobedient.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">He was an obedient Son of the Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Therefore, he has to do the work given by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Jesus is an obedient Son of the Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">This was the first time that Jesus revealed his true identity.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">But Jesus realized that time for ministry had not arrived yet.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">He had to continue to live with his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Therefore, he did not say anything more.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Like an obedient son, silently he held his mother's hands and went back to Nazareth.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Because he was an obedient Son of his mother he could not remain indifferent to her call.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Jesus began to grow up inspired by his parent's example and their love and affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Obedient to his parents, Jesus began to acquire the natural qualities that a human being should have.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Growing up in virtues and wisdom, he gained favour with God and men.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Until he reached the age of thirty, Jesus stayed with his parents helping them in their work.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Jesus was obedient child of his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He acquired all the virtues that a human being should naturally possess.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Jesus was obedient to God, his heavenly Father and to his earthly parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">This obedience of Jesus is unique virtue in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">God wants to tell us that we should be obedient to our parents, to our teachers and to God since our childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">He wants that we develop our human qualities under the guidance and the direction of our parents and teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">We should be faithful in doing the works that they assign to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Like obedient children, since our early years we should prepare ourselves for future life being attentive in our studies and acquiring knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">We should acquire the virtues and qualities that a human person should naturally have.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Along with all these, we should acquire knowledge of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">It is not enough to acquire natural qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">We also have to love God.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">We should live according to God's commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">We have to read the Holy Bible regularly in order to know and understand what our duties are and what God's commandments are.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">In obedience to the commandments of God, we should fulfill our duties faithfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In order to do God's works we have to sacrifice many things and face many hardships.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">But if we are obedient to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">We can overcome all problems and difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">It is not impossible to acquire these virtues and qualities if we are obedient to our parents, teachers and God.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Through our virtue of obedience and other good qualities we should strive to gain favour of God and men.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">When a dear friend of yours gets hurt, you also feel sorry for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">This is because you love him so much that you also feel the pain that he is feeling.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Jesus sincerely loved people form the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">In solidarity with the suffering people, he used his divine Jesus : Man and God 65 power to solve their problems and difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Being filled with compassion and love for the sick and the suffering he used his powerful divine words to heal and comfort people.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">No one was deprived of his loving touch.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">One day Jesus and his disciples went to a town called Nain.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The town was surrounded by a wall and there was a large gate on one side.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Just as Jesus arrived at the gate of the town, he saw a funeral procession.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">A group of people were carrying a dead man to be buried.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Many people were following them.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Their hearts were filled with sadness.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">For the man who died was a handsome young man.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">And he was the only son of a woman who was a widow.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">She had no other children .</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Having lost her son she became utterly helpless.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">And so everyone was sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The widow whose son had died was weeping as she walked with the people carrying the dead body.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">She was really broken.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Then she would have no one to call her own.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">For her husband had died long time ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">And she had no other children.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">She would just be alone and helpless .</sent>
				<sent id ="124">There would be nobody to take care of her.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The people who were going with the widow had sympathy for her.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">But there was nobody who could really help her.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Jesus saw and heard everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">He felt compassion thinking about the sorrow of a mother who was a widow.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">In fact he felt greater sorrow than anyone else.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">He told the widow: Dont cry.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Then Jesus walked over and touched the coffin, and the men carrying it stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">All the others also stopped and waited anxiously to see what Jesus would do.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">He looked at the dead body.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Then he said : Young Man! Get up, I tell you!</sent>
				<sent id ="135">What a miracle!</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The young man heard the words of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He came back to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">He opened his eyes, sat up and began to speak.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Jesus gave him back to his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The widow was never so happy before.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">In great joy she embraced her son.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">She found it hard to believe that from now on her son would again stay with her.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">But the fact is that he had died and the Lord Jesus raised him back to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Her heart was filled with gratitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Choked by emotions she could not speak any words.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Her gratitude became obvious in the tears rolling down her cheeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">All those who were present there said in amazement, How good God is to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">He has sent Jesus among us.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">This news about Jesus went out through all the country and they began to say.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Jesus is so great.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He is so great that he can give back life to a dead man.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Jesus loves people.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Therefore, he was able to feel the pain of the helpless widow and show such kindness to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">He did not simply console the widow by words of mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Rather he did what was necessary to relieve the pain and suffering of the widow.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He gave her son back to her alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Through this miraculous event Jesus wants to tell us that we too should love people.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">We should extend our helping hands to them and try our best to do what is necessary to relieve their suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It is not enough to express sympathy in words.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">We have to help them at the right moment by doing what is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Jesus raised a dead man back to life which is contrary to natural law of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Jesus is God himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Only God can give life to the dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Jesus is truly great.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">He has the fullness of divine power.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">He is God.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Therefore, he brings a dead man back to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Remember, Jesus is so great that he brought a dead young man back to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">In the eyes of Jesus everybody was equal, there was no difference between various classes of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">To him there was no difference between the leaders and the common people.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">He could not but respond to the appeals of those who had faith in him and those who sincerely wanted his help.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Once Jesus raised to life the daughter of an official in the local synagogue who was dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Usually such officials would always oppose Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">But Jairus was a good man, even though he was the official of the local synagogue.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He had faith in Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">And so Jesus raised Jairus dead daughter back to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">You would certainly like to know, how Jesus brought the dead girl back to life ?</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Please listen to the story.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">There was a man named Jairus, an official in the local synagogue.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">He was a powerful man and he was very rich.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He and his wife had a daughter and they lived as a happy family.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">One day the daughter got sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Her parents tried their best for her recovery from illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">They went to many great doctors.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">But the condition of the girl did not improve.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">At last the girl was about to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Jairus had heard many stories of Jesus miracles.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">He thought to himself, Jesus has cured many sick people.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Could he not cure my daughter ?</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Jairus was convinced that if he asked, Jesus would certainly cure his daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">If Jesus comes and touches his daughter she will be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">So he decided to go to Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">From the people he learned that Jesus was in that region by the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">So he got up and set out to go and see Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Please come and lay your hands on her and she will be cured.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Having said this he looked at Jesus expectantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Jesus felt pity on him when he saw Jairus faith and how he was suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">As Jesus started walking towards his house, a great number of people crowded in on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">It was impossible for them to walk fast because of the crowd.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">So Jesus was walking slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Just at the moment someone came from Jairus house and told him.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Your daughter has died.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Don't bother the Teacher any longer.'</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Jairus was sad and about to cry when he heard the news of his daughter's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">He began to tremble.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">He felt as if the earth underneath his feet was sinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Even then he did not lose his faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">He looked at Jesus expectantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Having heard the news of the daughter's death, Jesus said to Jairus.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">'Don't be afraid; only believe, and she will be well.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">When Jesus arrived at Jairus house with his disciples, he saw that may people gathered there and they were weeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Jairus was a respectable man and he was known to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Many came there to express their sympathy to Jairus and his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Everyone felt sorry for the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">When they saw Jesus, they started weeping all the more.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">They were at a loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Some of them said with a sigh, had Jesus arrived a little earlier, perhaps the girl would not have died.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Jesus understood their feelings.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">He went in and said in a low voice, Dont cry: the child is not dead-she is only sleeping .</sent>
				<sent id ="220">They all laughed at him, because they knew that she was dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Jesus took along only Peter, John and James and the parents of the girl and went inside the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">He saw the girl lying on the bed motionless.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Jesus then told them to give her something to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Her parents were astounded, they were overcome with amazement .</sent>
				<sent id ="225">They wondered, how is this possible!</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Their hearts were filled with gratitude to Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">They began to shed tears of joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Jesus commanded them not to tell anyone what had happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">In the eyes of God all human beings are equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The leaders of the society and the common people, the rich and the poor , the sinners and the just are alike to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">God loves everyone and He is gracious to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Jesus suffered when he saw the sufferings of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">And so, he used his divine power to free them from their pain and misery.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The miracles that he worked revealed God's glory and honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">God wants that we too try to relieve man's sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Jesus himself is God.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Otherwise he could not give life to dead persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Jesus loved the children very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">He was always ready to help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Whatever difficulties the children may have had, Jesus was ready to help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">If we have faith and trust in God, he is ready to relieve us from our pain and suffering, and fill us with his peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">For God loves each and every one of us.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
