<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-sci-10</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.811</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">191</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2394</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">665</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t54">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Water, carbon and oxygen are essential for the survival of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The protoplasm of living cells contains 75-90 percent water.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">So, cells cannot survive without water.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Food is necessary for survival of all life.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Compound of carbon, carbon dioxide, is needed for the preparation of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Again, oxygen is needed for respiration and life cannot survive even for a short time without oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Hence, it is seen that no life can exist without anyone of water, carbon and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">These substances are used continuously but the amount of these substances in the environment is not decreasing significantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">This is because on one hand these are being used up, while on the other these are being produced too.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Now we shall try to know how water, carbon, and oxygen cycles are going on in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Water is essential for the survival of every life.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">No living thing can exist without water.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">About 75 percent of our body is water.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Oceans are the main source of water on the earth's surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Besides, numerous rivers, canals, lakes and so on are also sources of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Due to sun heat the water from these water bodies evaporate and enter the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">In the atmosphere the water vapour condense to form cloud. Later, rain falls from these clouds.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Thus, the water comes back to earth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The soil absorbs this water.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Some of this absorbed water is taken up by the plant roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Rest of the water flows underground to reach the rivers, other water bodies and finally the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Through transpiration process of the plants, the water as water vapour is again passed into the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">This water vapour forms cloud and again comes back to the earth as rain water.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">In this way, water evaporates from different water bodies to form water vapour and thence cloud and then returns to earth as rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">This continuous recycling of water is called water cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">One of the main components of environment is water.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Water has unlimited influence on weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Water plays a major role in maintaining the humidity of atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Transpiration from plants keeps the air humid and contributes towards rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">This not only keeps the environment cool but also increases production of vegetation.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Side by side, it also maintains the equilibrium of water in the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">As there are no plants in the deserts, there is scanty rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Also the concentration of carbon dioxide in the environment is relatively more in the deserts leading to increased temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Carbon has an important role in the formation of living bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">No organic compound is formed without carbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">In other word, where there is life, there is carbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The main source of carbon in the atmosphere is carbon dioxide gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Normally, the air contains about 0.036 percent carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The carbon dioxide in air comes from different sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">During photosynthesis the green plants directly take up carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to produce carbohydrate type of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">During this process the carbon dioxide is converted into organic compound, which is stored in the plant body.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">No animal can produce its own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Every animal, directly or indirectly takes the food produced by the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">That is, by taking in carbon compound, the animals meet the demand of carbon.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Living things receive carbon as carbon dioxide from different environments.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">On the other hand, during respiration, the carbon compound is broken down to produce carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Thus the carbon is returned to the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The carbon compound in the dead plants and animals are decomposed by bacteria and fungus to release carbondioxide, which is returned to the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">In this way the.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">exchange of carbon between living things and the environment goes on.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Carbon dioxide is also produced during volcanic eruption.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The above discussion shows that equilibrium of carbon in the environment is maintained by the carbon cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">For food, all living beings are dependent on photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Green plants manufacture food by photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Carbon dioxide is used in the preparation of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">If there is depletion of carbon dioxide in the environment, plants will not be able to manufacture food.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">As a result, all living beings will die due to lack of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">On the other hand, it would be impossible for living beings to survive if the carbon dioxide in the environment increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">For this reason, the carbon cycle plays an important role in maintaining the equilibrium of carbon dioxide in the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Oxygen is one of the components of atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The content of oxygen in the atmosphere is about 21 percent.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Oxygen is also present in dissolved form in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Both air and water are the sources of oxygen for living things.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Oxygen is essential for the survival of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">No aquatic or terrestrial living thing can survive without oxygen, as oxygen is needed for respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">For respiration, terrestrial plants take in oxygen from air., while the aquatic plants take in oxygen from water.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Besides respiration of living things, oxygen is also needed for combustion of anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">As a result, life will not survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">During respiration, reaction of food with oxygen occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">As a result, carbon dioxide and water is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Both of these are compounds of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">By this reaction the free oxygen is transformed into oxygen compound and returned to the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Through photosynthesis, green plants with the help of water and carbon dioxide produce carbohydrate like food.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">In the process, oxygen is released as by-product, which then pass back into the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">As plants produce oxygen by photosynthetic process, there should be plenty of green plants in the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Compared to the rural areas, there is less number of plants in the urban areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">So, there is less atmospheric oxygen in urban than in rural settings.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">So, measures to increase the supply of oxygen in urban areas can be done by planting more trees or cultivating more vegetable.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The above discussion shows that during respiration plants take up oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">On the other hand, release oxygen during photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Taking up of oxygen on one hand and releasing it on the other keeps the oxygen content unaltered in the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">This is called oxygen cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The oxygen equilibrium in the environment is maintained through photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The necessary balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide essential for life is maintained through this cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Whoever has life is living.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Living organisms include plants, animals, and microorganisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">All living beings take food for survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">No living being can survive without food.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">As food helps to form the structure of body and supply energy for different organic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">No animal can produce its own food.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Directly or indirectly animals have to depend on plants for food.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Plants are not dependent on animals for food, they produce their own food, that is they are autotrophic.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">By photosynthesis, carbon dioxide reacts with water to produce food.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The raw materials needed in the plant body to produce food are water and carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">In factories while producing something from raw material, some additional substance is also produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">These are called by-products, for example, glycerine is formed as a by-product during soap production.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">In the same way, oxygen is produced as a by-product during photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">During daytime, green plants carry on the process of photosynthesis as long as they get sunlight and continue to release oxygen into the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This is the way by which oxygen in increased in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It is only through photosynthesis in green plants that oxygen increases in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">So, in the forest the air content of oxygen is more and carbon dioxide is less.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">By photosynthetic process plants release oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">We can set up the experiment ourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Listen how we shall do the experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">For this experiment, some fresh aquatic plants or parts of plant need to be collected.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">In addition, a funnel, a test tube, a beaker, and a matchbox is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">It is possible to collect algae from nearby pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The plants are placed in a beaker and covered with an inverted funnel.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The beaker is then filled with water in such a way that the nozzle of the funnel is immersed.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Now, a test tube is filled completely with water and its mouth is closed with the fingertip and inverted over the nozzle of the funnel.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This has to be done very carefully so that the water in the test tube does not spill out.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The beaker is then placed in sunlight and watched for sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">A flameless burning matchstick is held near the mouth of the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">It will be seen that the matchstick burns with a bright flame.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">It is possible for the stick to burn thus as the test tube contains oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">It can be proved in this way that green plants give out oxygen through the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The atmospheric content of oxygen is about 21 percent and carbon dioxide is 0.036 percent.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">During respiration, all living things take up oxygen from the environment and give out carbon dioxide in the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">This decreases the amount of oxygen and increases carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Apparently, it appears that oxygen content in the environment will be depleted and carbon dioxide will fill up the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">But this does not happen.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The reason is that during the process of photosynthesis all green plants take up carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and give out oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">In this way the balance of carbon dioxide and oxygen is maintained in the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Energy is required to accomplish all organic functions in living bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">In living things, this energy is derived from carbohydrate type of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Green plants produce this food through photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Sun is the source of all energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">When plants produce carbohydrate type of food through photosynthesis, the solar energy is converted to chemical energy and stored as potential energy in food.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">In cells, oxygen reacts chemically with food.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">As a result, the stored potential energy in food is converted to a form that can be used for organic functions in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">This process is called respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Energy produced through respiration is used for all functions of the body Out of interest you plant a sapling in a tub.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Next, this will require careful tending, such as watering it and keeping it in sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">If a person does not eat day after day, he will gradually lose strength and vigor.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">He will also lose the ability to move around.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">And if this continues for long, he will die.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">This shows that no life can survive without food, as without food the necessary energy is not produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">During respiration in plant and animal cells, food and oxygen react chemically.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">As a result of this reaction, that is, due to respiration usable energy is produced from food.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">All activity of living body is accomplished with the help of this energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The plants and animals together constitute the living world.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">One cannot survive without the help of the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Though it may appear that plant and animal have different life styles, yet for survival they are dependent on each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">So, plant can produce food.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">But since animal cells do not have chlorophyll they cannot produce food.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">All animals directly depend on plants for their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Some animals directly take plants as food, while some animals indirectly take food from plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Some plants are insectivores, for example pitcher plant, which depend on insects to meet the need of protein food.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Plants and animals are dependent on each other for oxygen and carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">During respiration, plants and animals take in oxygen and give out carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Green plants, by the process of photosynthesis take in carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and release oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Thus, the plants and animals are dependent on each other through the balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Animal excreta, carcass and so on, mix with soil and increase its fertility which is essential for plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Some plants are dependent on insects for pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">When insects fly from flower to flower in search of honey, pollination occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">In some flowers, birds help in pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Human beings and other animals carry mature and sweet fruits from one place to another and after eating the fruit, throw away the seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Thus the animals help in the spread of seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">At times, some animals eat the seeds along with the fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The seeds may not be digested in the animal stomach and passed out with faeces.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Thus, animals help to dissemirate the seeds of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Red ants build their habitat on trees like mango and litchi.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">They survive on the juice of fruits on the tree and save the plant from its enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">From the above discussion it is understood that plants and animals depend on each other for survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Different living things in this world are dependent of each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">No one can survive as an individual entity.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Let us consider energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Energy is needed for all activities that are necessary for survival by each and every living thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">This energy is derived from food.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">But all living things cannot produce food for themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">They eat plants or other animals for survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">They are called consumers.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">In this way, in different environments, a group of animal depends on another group for energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Let us discuss the producer-consumer relationship among the different living things in a pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Floating algae grow in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">They are called phytoplankton.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">They are green coloured, so in the presence of sunlight they can produce food by photosynthesis, a process which animals cannot accomplish.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">They are called producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Very small animals consume these producers.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">These animals also float.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">They are called zooplankton.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">These animals that eat the producers are called first level of consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">They are in turn eaten by small fish or insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Those who eat the first level of consumers are called second level of consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Again those who eat the second level of consumers are called third level of consumer.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The part of energy that the producer receives from sunlight decreases by 80-90 percent as it passes through the different consumer levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Here a simple food chain in terrestrial environment is shown.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Many types of food chains are seen among living things.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">These food chains are inter- connected by different animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">These food chains together form the food web.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">That is, all the food chains in which a living species is included together form the food web.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
