<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-sci-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.235</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">253</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3318</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">810</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t73">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">you might have drunk sharbat of cane molasses or sugar.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">You certainly know how sharbat is prepared from cane molasses or sugar.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Take a glass of clear water and add a few spoonful of sugar to it and stir well.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">After some time you will find that the sugar has already disappeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Sugar grains will not be seen by naked eyes and even with the help of a microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Now the question is where has the sugar gone after it is mixed with water?</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Sugar has dissolved in water and disappeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Have a taste of the sugar mixed water and it tastes sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">It proves that the sugar remains in the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">This mixture is called solution of sugar and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Sugar is soluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The solid which dissolves is called solute.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Sugar has dissolved in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">So, sugar is a solute.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The liquid that dissolves a substance is called solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">In the solution of sugar and water, water has dissolved the sugar.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">So in this case, water is a solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">In this case the homogeneous mixture that is formed as a result of mixing a solute and a solvent is called a solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Do this experiment with common salt, copper sulphate or blue vitriol, sand and flour instead of sugar and observe.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Take a few spoonfuls of salt in a glass of water and stir well.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">What do you see? Salt has dissolved in water to make a solution of salt and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Such clear solution, when filtered with the help of a filter paper, will not get any residue.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">What do you see?</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The mixture looks turbid.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Now keep the mixture at rest for sometime.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">You will find that the sand has settled at the bottom of the beaker and water at the top looks clear.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Now separate the sand and water from the mixture by decantation or filtration process.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">You will see, sand is left out in the bottom of the beaker after decantation and on the filter paper after filtration.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">From this experiment and observation, we can say that sand is not soluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">So, the mixture of sand and water is not a solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Sand is insoluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">In the same way, mix a little flour with water in a beaker and stir continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">You will see that flour is not mixing completely with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">A milky mixture of flour and water has prepared from this mixture flour and water can be separated by filtration or stirring ?</sent>
				<sent id ="35">This mixture also should not be called a solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Flour is also insoluble in water like sand.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">A solution has two parts viz- solute and solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The substance which is dissolved, is called the solute and which dissolves the solute is called the solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">In the solution of sugar and water, sugar is the solute and water is the solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The component of a solution that exists in smaller quantity and which produces a homogeneous mixture by dissolving in a solvent is called solute.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">If a solution is prepared by dissolving sugar or salt in water then the sugar or the salt will be the solute of that solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Water is an excellent solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Solution is a homogeneous mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">That means, the components, the composition and the properties of different portions of the solution will remain the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Molecules of both the solute and the solvent in a solution retain their individual properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Particles of the solute can not be separated from the solution by filtration.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Particles of solute do not settle at the bottom if the solution is left out.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Solute and solvent can be separated from solid-liquid solution by distillation process.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Proportion of the solute in a solution can be decreased or increased by changing its the temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Solute in a solution remains so thoroughly that these substances can't be seen even by a standard microscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Among the thousand types of liquids in the world, the quantity of water is highest.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">It is not easy to measure the quantity of water present in lakes, canals, rivers and oceans.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Water is available on demand, that means, among the various types of liquids, water is the cheapest and the most easily available.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The most important property of water is - water can dissolve the highest number of substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">That is why we do not get pure water in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Because, rivers originating from mountains flow over rocks and soils and dissolves all soluble substances at the time of flowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">These substances dissolves in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">For this reason, there are iron and lime as mixture in certain river water.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In rain water many components of air remain dissolved.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Spring or tube-well water when percolating through underground, striates carries soluble mineral substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">For this reason, spring and tube well water gives taste and smell of certain mineral substances such as calcium, magnesium, iron, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The salt, that we use in our diet remains dissolved in large quantity in sea water.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">So, in most cases salt is prepared by drying of sea water.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Various gaseous substances are also dissolved in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Among the various types of solvents, water is the most easily available and the cheapest one.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Water dissolves the highest variety of substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">That is why water is called an excellent solvent or greatest solvent or universal solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">What do you see?</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The salt quickly dissolves in water making a homogeneous solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">At this condition the solution of salt and water that has been prepared is called an unsaturated solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">In this solution if more solute is added, it will be dissolved.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">By adding more solute to an unsaturated solution, it can be turned into a saturated one at the same temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Let us prepare a saturated solution by adding more salt to the unsaturated one.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Add salt in tea spoonful quantity with the unsaturated solution of salt and water one after another and keep stirring.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">You will see that the salt has dissolved.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">In this way continue the process of adding some salt and stirring.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">You will see that a moment will come when no more salt dissolves.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">You will see some excess salt settled at the bottom of the beaker when the water of the beaker becomes stationary.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The reason is that, a fixed quantity of water can dissolve a fixed quantity of salt of definite temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">With the increase of water you will see that the salt remained un- dissolved at the bottom of the beaker has dissolved.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Again the solute that remains un- dissolved at the bottom of the beaker can be dissolved by raising the temperature of the solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">From this, it is proved that in a particular solvent, the quantity of a solute that can be dissolved at a particular temperature is limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">That means, a fixed quantity of solvent can dissolve at a particular temperature only a definite quantity of solute.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">And the solution which can dissolve more solute if added at a particular temperature is called an unsaturated solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">We can compare the terms saturated solution and unsaturated solution with our meals.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">When we feel hungry, we take foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">We go on eating as much as we can.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">When our appetite is satisfied, then we do not want to take more food.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">We take food as long as we have appetite.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">This condition can be compared with an unsaturated solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">But we do not like to eat when our appetite becomes satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">This condition can be compared with that of a saturated solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">You have observed earlier that dissolving power of a solvent depends upon heat or temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">At a particular temperature, a definite quantity of a saturated solution dissolves a definite quantity of solute.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">If the temperature of the solution is increased then the solute dissolving power of the solvent also increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">As a result, a saturated solution turns into an unsaturated solution at a higher temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Without adding any more solute, an unsaturated solution can be turned saturated by two ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Solubility of a solution goes down on cooling it.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">So, an unsaturated solution turns into a saturated solution if it is cooled.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">If a solution is heated then some solvents evaporate out.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">As a result, the quantity of the solvent in the solution reduces.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">In this circumstances, the solution will be converted into a saturated one.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">You have seen that a solution is prepared by adding solute to a solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Make a saturated solution in 100 ml water by dissolving salt or sugar and measure the solution again with the help of a measuring cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">You will see that, there is no change in the volume of the solvent after making the solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">As a result of dissolving the sugar or salt in the water, the density of water has increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">An unsaturated solution can dissolve more solute until it gets saturated.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">When the temperature of unsaturated solution is raised, it becomes more unsaturated.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">On, cooling, an unsaturated solution slowly turns into a saturated solution .</sent>
				<sent id ="110">An unsaturated solution becomes more unsaturated or dilute if more water is added.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">If more solute is added to a saturated solution, it will not be dissolved, it will settle at the bottom of the container.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">When the temperature of a saturated solution IS raised, it turns into an unsaturated solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">On cooling a saturated solution the dissolved solute slowly comes out as solid and settles at the bottom.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Because, the solute accommodation capacity of a solvent decreases when its temperature is decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">If more water is added to a saturated solution then, it becomes an unsaturated solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">At the same temperature more solvent can dissolve more solute.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Unsaturated solutions can be divided into two groups viz- dilute solutions and concentrated solutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">A solution which contains comparatively less quantity of solute is called a dilute solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">On the other hand, the solution, which contains comparatively more solute is called a concentrated solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">In a definite quantity of a liquid, all substances to the same extent can not dissolved to the some extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Take 100 ml water in a beaker with the help of a measuring cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Now mix sugar in tea spoonful quantity one after another with the water of the beaker and keep stirring.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">In this way make a saturated solution of salt and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Write down in the table as to how many spoonfuls of salt needed to make the solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">What have you seen ?</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Are the quantities of sugar and salt same to make saturated solution in both the cases?</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Have a look at your table.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">More tea spoonfuls of sugar were required than the number of tea spoonfuls of salt needed to prepare a saturated solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">That means, sugar is more soluble in water than salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">At normal temperature sugar is six times more soluble than salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The reason of this is that solubility of sugar is much higher than that of salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Common salt, sugar, blue.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">vitriol etc. are solid substances, can be dissolved in water making an aqueous solution of the substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">In this solution, water is called the solvent and the solid substances like salt, sugar, blue vitriol, etc. are called solutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">In a solution of sugar and water, water is the solvent and sugar is the solute.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">In such a solution both the solute and the solvent are liquids.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Here the liquid which exists in higher quantity is known as solvent and the one in lower quantity is known as the solute.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">For example, a solution of milk and water, is made by mixing 100 ml water with 1 litre milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Soda water is an aqueous solution of carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Here, water is the solvent and carbon dioxide is the solute.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Two or more gases which do not mutually react can mix together at any ratio to form a saturated solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Air is mainly a solution of nitrogen and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Here, the quantity of nitrogen is higher and so it is the solvent and of other gases being less in ornately are mentioned as solute.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Bronze is a mixture of copper and zinc and brass is a mixture of copper and tin.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Separation of solid solute from solution We know that there are two parts of any solution- viz- solute and solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">In a solution of salt and water, salt is the solute and water is the solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Solid solute and liquid solvent can not be separated from a solution by means of decantation and filtration.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">If a solution of salt and water is left out, it remains unchanged, solute and solvent do not get separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Even a solvent can not be separated by filtering through a filter paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Components of a solution can be separated by a vaporation and distillation.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This process is called evaporation.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">During evaporation, the liquid solvent turns into vapour and escapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">That is why the liquid part is not returned.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">On heating, water or a liquid first turns into a vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">That vapour can be cooled back to liquid again.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The process by which a liquid first turns into vapour and on cooling it turns again into the same liquid is called distillation.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Through distillation, both salt and water can be recovered from a solution of salt in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Besides, evaporation and distillation processes, a solute may also be partially separated from a solution by crystallization process.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Make a saturated aqueous solution of sugar, salt or blue vitriol in a beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It will turn into an unsaturated solution if heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">At this condition, extra solute is added will also be dissolved.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Filter this hot and concentrated solution with the help of a filter paper and then cool the filtrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Observe after a while.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">is anything being found ?</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Yes, some granular substance, has settled at the bottom of the solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Such solid substance is called crystals.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">And their process is called crystallization.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Crystals of certain substances look very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Perhaps you have seen sugar candy.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Granules of sugar candy are also such crystals.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The crystals of salt, sugar, candy, blue-vitriol, alum, etc. look beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">You can make sugar candy that we use to prepare drinks, you can make it at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Take some water in a pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Add sugar through stirring and heat the solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Keep on mixing the sugar until some un- dissolved sugar settle in the bottom of the pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Filter the solution heating after and divide the concentrated solution of sugar into two parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Put them in two separate cups.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Drop a small grain of sugar candy in a cup.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">In the other cup, hang a small grain sugar candy with the help of a thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Keep the two cups with sugar solution in a cool place.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Grains of sugar from the solution have settled on the grain of the candy that is hung with thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">As a result, it becomes bigger in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Everyday we take salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Every living being needs salt to live.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">We can not live without salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Vegetables, fruits, fish, meat, drinks etc. contains salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Plants absorbs salts from the soil with the help of its roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">We take these salts with foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">We suffer from various diseases due to deficiency of salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Salts help to clean our blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Salt is used to keep fish, meat, etc. fresh and preserve leather.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Food becomes delicious if appropriate amount of salt is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">But food becomes inedible if excessive salt is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">So, you might have understood how useful the salt is to us and in preparing food an appropriate quantity of salt is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Now the question is - where do we get the salt from ?</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Yes, the salt that we take in our food can be collected from two sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">For example - from salt mine and from sea water.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Salt mine is not available in all the countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Salt mine is not available in our country also.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">That is why?</sent>
				<sent id ="201">We get salt from sea water in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Sea water tastes very saline when it is takes in the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">We can not drink this water.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Originally sea water is a solution of salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Due to the heat of the sun the water of the sea evaporates out but the salt dissolved in water remains in the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The sea water evaporates to form clouds. Clouds are stored on the hill side as snow.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Again clouds from rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Water from molten snow and rain streams into the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">You have learnt that water is an excellent solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Water dissolves various salts when it flows over the soil, rock, etc. of the surface of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">These dissolved salts flow and store into the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">In this way, the concentration of salts in the sea-water is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">You might have understood the reason of the sea water being salty.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Of this vast quantity of sea water, 26 parts out of one thousand is salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">That is why, common salt is prepared from sea water.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">You already know that water evaporates away from salt water solution when heated and salt separates out as grains or crystals.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Try to recollect the name of the process by which a solute can be isolated from a solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">It is called the evaporation process.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">By using this evaporation process, it is not any to prepared common salt from sea water.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Salt preparation process is very interesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">To prepare a huge quantity of salt, a vast quantity of sea water has to be evaporated.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">In our houses, salt can be prepared by heating sea water in a hearth.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Every year thousands of mounds of salt are prepared in this way in the district of Chittagong of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Those who produce salt are called salt cultivators.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">For preparing salt, in coastal grounds sea water is accumulated by making dykes.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">At the time of high tide sea water enters to these places which are surrounded by the dykes.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Sometimes canals are dug to bring sea water into the area.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Then the canals are closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">As a result, water can not get out or get in of the dams.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Then water of the dooms evaporates away due to sun shine.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">A five or six inches thick layer of salt forms on the bed of the dooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">To prepare salt in this way, needs 20/25 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The salt thus produced contains several dirt materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">So, after refining the salt with the help of machines, it is sold in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Machines used for refining of the salt are called refining machine or salt clarifier.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Human body needs a very small quantity of iodine everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Due to lack of iodine thyroid glands does not work properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">So, the person may be attacked by goitre.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">In case of pregnant women, are to lack of small quantity of iodine in the body, the pregnant woman sometimes procreate disabled and dumb babies.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">So, proportionate quantity of iodine is mixed with the salt at the time of purification with the help of refining machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Now a days, we use iodine mixed salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">You will use iodine mixed salt is cooking and as a table salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">In this chapter we have discussed about solution of solid solute and liquid solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Solution may be prepared by mixing liquid with gas and gas with gas also.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Try to give an example of a solution which is made by gas solute land liquid solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Perhaps you will say - soda water, lemonade, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">We know that all animals need oxygen for respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The creatures living under water like- fish, aquatic plants, etc. need oxygen for breathing but can you say from where do they get it ?</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Yes, oxygen is slightly soluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">That means oxygen is solute and water is solvent.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Oxygen and water mix together to make a homogeneous solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">As oxygen remains dissolved in water, it helps aquatic plants and animals to breath.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Fish, with the help of gill and aquatic plants, with the help of leaves, take dissolved oxygen for their respiration.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
