<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-sci-12</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.858</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">240</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3187</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">746</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t56">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">You are reading this book, could you do it if there were no light?</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Certainly not only books but also it would not be possible for us to see anything in this world without light.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">But can we see light?</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Look all around you.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Chairs, tables, houses, plants or other things would come to your sight.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">But do you see anything called light?</sent>
				<sent id ="7">No, you do not.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Because light cannot be seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The quality of light is this that it makes objects visible but it itself remains invisible.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">We see a lighted object but we do not see light.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">We can see an object only when light from the object reaches our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">When light enters into our eyes, our nervous system transmits the message to our brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Then it gives us the sensation to see the object that is we can see the object.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Earlier you have learnt that light is a form of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Light is such a form of energy which enters into our eyes and gives us the sensation to see.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The sun is the main source of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">During the day hours, we get light from the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The sun is a natural source of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">At night, we get light from electric bulb, candle lantern, hurricane light, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">These are man made sources of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">How does light from the sun come to the earth?</sent>
				<sent id ="22">You have learnt from chapter three that there is only space beyond our atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Therefore, sunlight travels through this space.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">It means that light does not require any medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">It can pass through vacuum.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Again it can also pass through some substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">For example, sunlight passes through atmosphere to reach the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Light passes through glass and water too.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Air, glass, water, etc. and such other media through which light can pass easily are known as transparent media.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">On the other hand, there are some substances through which light cannot passs.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">These substances are known as opaque medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">For example, wood, iron, brick, paper, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Take a piece of paper and soak its centre with a drop of oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Now hold the piece of paper in front of a light source.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">You will see that some light is coming through the oiled place of the paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Such substances through which light passes partially are known as translucent media.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">When a transparent glass is grazed it becomes translucent.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Light travels in a straight line in a transparent medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">This path of light along a straight line is called a ray of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Hold your hand in front of a light source such as a torch light, a candle or an electric bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The shape of this black area is similar to the shape of your hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">This is said to be a shadow of your hand on the paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Your hand is an opaque substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Light can neither penetrate through the hand nor glide along the edges of the hand, since it travels in a straight line.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">So, light cannot reach the area behind your hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">As a result, a dark region resembling the shape of a hand is formed at the back of the hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">This is known as the shadow of a hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">So, the region turns dark or black.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">This dark or black region is known as the shadow of the opaque.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">An opaque object has a shadow and the edges of a shadow are similar to the edges of the object.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">This fact proves that light travels in a straight line.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Shadows are of two types_ the umbra and the penumbra.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Place a football or any opaque object, round in shape, in front of a point source of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Now if you place a white screen behind the object, it will cast a black shadow, round in shape on the screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">This shadow is termed as the umbra (Fig 13.2).</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The light ray, PA that comes from point P travels along edge A of the football and falls on the screen at point A1.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Similarly another ray PB falls on the screen at point B1 The football is an opaque object.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">So, rays between P A and PB cannot travel through the football and fall on the screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Thus no light ray falls on any point inside the area A1B1 of the screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The area remains completely dark.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">This deep dark or black area, round in shape, is known as the umbra of the football.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Figure 13.3 shows such a source of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">This source is extended from P1 to P2 and may be conceived as a collection of innumerable point sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Thus source of this type is termed as an extended source of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Thus light ray P1A travels along the edge A of the football and falls on the screen at point D.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">In the same way rays from point P2 will form a shadow on the area EC of the screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">P1 is the highest point and P2 is the lowest point on the source.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Therefore, rays from all points in between P1 P2 are the lowest point in the source.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Therefore, rays from all points in between P1 P2 will form a shadow of the object covering an area CF of the screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Now if you pay attention, you will observe that light cannot reach area DE of the screen from any of the points of the source.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">As a result, a deep black shadow is formed there; this shadow is called the umbra.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Similarly, the area EF receives light from the lower part, though it does not receive light from the upper part of the source.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Therefore, a partially lighted shadow is formed in areas CD and EF of the screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">This light black or gray shadow is called penumbra.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">So, we observe that a shadow has two parts- the umbra and the penumbra.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The part of the shadow which does not receive light at all, that is, the part which is completely dark, is known as the umbra.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The part of the shadow which receives some light and remains partially lighted or dark, is known as the penumbra.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">As the source is moved away, both umbra and penumbra decrease in size but they increase when the source is moved narer.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">A total solar eclipse was observed from some regions of Bangladesh on 24th October.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It was the last total solar eclipse of the century viewed in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It was a rare incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">It roused interest and excitement among all .</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Many travelled far away up to the Hiron Point to see the total solar eclipse.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">You might have seen it yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">It seems as if a black shadow gradually engulfs the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">This solar eclipse is a natural phenomenon of forming umbra and penumbra.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">You know that the earth is a planet of the sun and the moon is a satellite of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The earth moves continuously round the sun and so does the moon round the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The sun is considered to be an extended source of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The earth and the moon are opaque bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Sunlight brightens the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">So, we can see the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">We cannot see the moon during the night of a new moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">At this time, the moon on its journey around the earth comes in between the sun and the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Therefore, the sunlight which falls on the other side of the moon, which cannot be seen from the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Occasionally, the sun, the moon and the earth lie on a straight line during a new moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">At this time, some parts of the earth are shadowed by the moon (Fig. 13.4).</sent>
				<sent id ="98">As a result, the sun cannot be viewed in full from those regions.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This is known as the solar eclipse.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The sun is an extended source of light and the moon is a large opaque body.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">So, both kinds of shadow, the umbra and the penumbra are formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The sun is not seen at all from those regions of the earth on which umbra is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">This region is deep and dark.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The eclipse in this region is known as the total solar eclipse (Region CD of Fig 13.4).</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The sun can be partially viewed from the regions of penumbra.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">So, the eclipse in these regions is known as the partial solar eclipse.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">(Region EF of Fig 13.4).</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The region where total solar eclipse takes place becomes as dark as night and stars are seen in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The earth moves round the sun and the moon moves round the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">While moving, sometimes the earth comes between the sun and the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">During this time the part of the moon which receives sunlight, can be viewed in full from a particular region of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">This fully lighted moon is known as the full moon i.e., full moon is seen on that day.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Occasionally the sun, the moon and the earth come to lie in a straight line in a full moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">At this time, the shadow of the earth falls on the moon and the moon cannot be viewed totally or partially.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">This is known as the lunar eclipse (Fig 13.5).</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The sun is the largest in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The earth is smaller than the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">So, the umbra of the earth is bigger than the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">When the moon completely enters into the earth's umbra, it cannot be viewed since the moon has no light of its own.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">This is known as the total lunar eclipse.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">When a part of the moon enters into the umbra, that particular part only is not viewed.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">This is known as the partial lunar eclipse.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The moon lies in the penumbra region immediately before and after the lunar eclipse.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">During this time, the moon diminishes in brightness and becomes pale.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Surely you have a question now in your mind, why solar eclipse and lunar eclipse do not occur every new moon and full moon?</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The reason is that the orbit of the earth and the orbit of the moon do not lie in the same plane.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The plane of the earth's orbit of the earth is inclined at an angle of about 5? to that of the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">So the sun, the moon and the earth do not come to lie in a straight line in every new moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Lunar eclipse happens to occur only in that full moon in which the sun, the moon and the earth lie in a straight line.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">How do you see this book?</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Light from a source comes through the air and falls on the book.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The book is an opaque substance, so light cannot pass through it.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">so being obstructed by the opaque object; book, it returns to your eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">In this way, you can see the book.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">This phenomenon is known as reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The surface from which light is reflected is called a reflector.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Glass or any other smooth or shiny object serves as a good reflector.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The smoothness and nature of an object determine to what extent light will be reflected when it falls on the object.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">When light falls on an opaque substance, such as a book, a part of the light is absorbed and most of it is reflected.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">If the surface of the opaque body is very smooth or bright, most of the light will be reflected.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">But if the opaque is very smooth and bright, most of the light will be reflected.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">But if the opaque body is black in colour, most of the light will be absorbed and only a little of it will be reflected.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">As light is fully absorbed by a deep black object, there is no occurrence of reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">On the other hand, if the object is completely white, there will be no absorption but a complete reflection of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">It means the object which does not reflect light looks black.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The more an object reflects light, the more white it is to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">We can see glass or water as it reflects some part of the light.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">We cannot see air as it does not reflect light.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In fact, an object comes into sight only when it reflects light.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Drop a football straight downward in the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">If the surface of the ground is smooth, the football will come back straight upward.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Similarly, when a beam of light falls on a smooth surface, it is reflected in a fixed direction according to some laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">This type of reflection is known as regular reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Regular reflection occurs only from smooth surfaces, such as looking glass, polished metals or any other smooth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">In a regular reflection, an image of the source of light is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">You can see your image in a mirror due to regular reflection on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Reflection of this type is known as the diffused reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Diffused reflection occurs from the most of the objects we see around us, such as the walls of a room, rough papers, ground glass, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">No image is formed in the diffused reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Only the object which reflects, is seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Diffused reflection occurs from the pages of your book.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">As a result, you can see your book.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">All of you may have enjoyed a film show.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Have you noticed the colour and smoothness of the screen?</sent>
				<sent id ="165">You will see that the screen is white and unpolished.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">What may be the reason for it?</sent>
				<sent id ="167">As the screen is unpolished, diffused reflection occurs i.e., light is scattered in all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">As a result, spectators can see the film from all comers.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Moreover, as the screen is white and maximum reflection occurs from white objects, the film appears to be bright on the screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Regular reflection of light observes some laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Regular reflection takes place when a beam of light falls on a plane mirror or glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Suppose a ray of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">AO falls directly on mirror M1 M2 at point O and is reflected on the direction of OB.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The ray of light, which falls on the surface of the reflector, is called the incident ray.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Here AO is the incident ray.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The point at which the incident ray falls is called the point of incidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">O is the point of incidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The ray of light, which is reflected back from the surface of the reflector, is known as the reflected ray.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Here OB is the reflected ray.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The perpendicular drawn at the point of incidence is known as the normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Here ON is the normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The angle between the incident ray and the normal is called the angle of incidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Angle AON is the angle of incidence between the reflected ray and the normal is called the angle of reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Here BON is the angle of reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Second law: The angle of incidence is always equal to the angle of reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Do you want to see the reflection of light?</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Hold a mirror facing the sun and move it in different directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Note how sunlight gets reflected.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">What do you see when you stand before a mirror?</sent>
				<sent id ="190">You see your replica.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">It seems as if you are standing behind the mirror.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">This is your image.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">We know that we can see an object only when rays of light from the object come to our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">In this case, rays of light from your body do not come to your eyes directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Rays of light from each point of your body fall on the mirror and reflect back to your eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">So, what you see is not You- but your image.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">This image appears to be formed at the back of the mirror but cannot be cast on a screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">This image has no existence in reality, since light cannot pass through the mirror to reach a point at the rear.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">This is why, this image has no real existence and so it is known as the virtual image.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">But the picture you see in a cinema is an image formed on the screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The image of a film is cast on the screen with the help of a projector.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">In fact, rays of light converge on the screen here.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">This image is, therefore, called the real image.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Images are of two types- the real image and the virtual image.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">A real image is formed by actual convergence of the rays and can be cast on a screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">A virtual image is not formed by actual convergence of the rays, rather appears to come from an image.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">A virtual image cannot be cast on the screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">A mirror is a polished surface from which regular reflection occurs according to the laws of reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The most familiar mirror to us is a looking glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">This mirror is constructed by coating a thin polished glass with silver.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The mirror that has a plane reflecting surface is known as a plane mirror.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">One of the rays PQ falls on the mirror perpendicularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">As the angle of incidence, in this case, is zero, the angle of reflection will also be zero according to the laws of reflection.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">It means the ray will retrace its initial path in the QP direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Two other rays, PO and PR fall on the mirror obliquely.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">According to the laws of reflection, these two rays will be reflected along OS and RT respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Therefore, point P1 is a virtual image of point P.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">You can determine the position of an image on a plane mirror with the help of an experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Experiment: Fix a white sheet of paper with a pin on a drawing board or a plane table.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Draw a straight line XY on the paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Place a mirror vertically on the line such that the reflecting surface of the mirror touches the line XY.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Fix a pin vertically at the point O in front of the mirror.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Now remove the mirror and draw three straight lines along CBA, NML and RQP.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">All the three lines are in the direction of I. So, the lines will converge at the point I when these are extended backward.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">This means that the distance of the object from the mirror is equal to the distance of the image from the mirror.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">We need light to see things.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Besides this important use of light there are other uses of light also.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Most of you have seen that red, yellow and green signals of light are used to control traffic at crossroads of a city.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Often in seas two ships use light signals to exchange messages.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">There are many such examples of the use of a light signal.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">You need light to take your photo with the help of a camera.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Photographs cannot be taken without light.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">You have learnt from chapter eleven that plants prepare food through the process of photosynthesis.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Sunlight is required for this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Generation of electricity is another important use of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">There are some special kinds of elements which generate electricity when light falls on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Silicon is an example of such an element.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Silicon is used to make solar cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Solar cells transform light energy into electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Nowadays solar cells are used in electronic calculators, watches and other equipment.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
