<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-sci-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:55:59.787</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">259</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3404</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">911</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t53">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We cannot see heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Heat has no weight, colour or odour.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">But we can feel its existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">If you go out and stand in the sun, you will feel hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Touch a piece of ice, you will feel cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The external cause for which the sensation of hotness or coldness is felt is called heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Again we know that heat is one kind or energy that gives us the sensation of hotness or coldness.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">An object becomes hot when it absorbs heat and becomes cold when it releases heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">About 200 years ago heat was also considered to be an invisible, weightless and indestructible fluid or gaseous substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Scientists named this strange matter caloric.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">It was held that all objects contained caloric in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">When the caloric enters into any object, its caloric increases, the object becomes hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">On the other hand, if caloric is released or its caloric decreases, the object becomes cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">This theory is known as the caloric theory of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Later the caloric theory failed to exist due to the research works of the scientists called Count Ramford (1753-1814), James Joules (1818-1889) and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">It is also natural that caloric should have weight, if it was a matter, since all matters have weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Weightless matters may be imagined, but they do not exist in reality.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Different objects are found not to differ in weight, when they are measured in both hot and cold condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The prevailing idea about the nature of heat is known as the kinetic theory of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">You know, every object is made of innumerous atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">These atoms are always in motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">If motion of atoms increases, kinetic energy also increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">This kinetic energy is transformed into heatenergy.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">As a result, heat of the object increases in the object becomes hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In short, heat is another form of kinetic energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The total kinetic energy created in an object due to the motion of atoms is transformed into heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">This is kinetic theory of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">We know that energy transforms from one form to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Heat is one kind of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">So, heat can be transferred into different energy and different energy may be transformed into heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Rub the palms of your hands for a number of times, they will be warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">This means that rubbing of hands produces heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Here, mechanical energy has transformed into heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Again we need heat for our survival too.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">We get this heat from our food.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Chemical energy in food transforms into heat energy and supplies us strength to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">We need heat to cook.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">We get this heat by burning wood, coal, gas or oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Here, heat originates from the chemical energy stored in wood, gas or oil (petrol, kerosene, diesel).</sent>
				<sent id ="40">This heat energy is transformed into mechanical energy to drive trains, motor, launches and steamers.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Moreover, it is transformed into electrical energy to supply electricity to the mills, factories and houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Heat may also be produced from electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Electric heaters, irons, cookers etc. are its examples.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Heat is required on earth to sustain lives of men and animals and to grow plants and trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">We get this heat from the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It is the heat of the sun that keeps the earth hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Animals and plants gather energy from this heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Again, when plants and animals die and remain buried under the soil for millions of years, they transform into coal, gas or oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">It means that the sun is the main source of heat of coal, gas and oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Hence, the sun is the main source of heat although coal, gas and oil are seen as its direct sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Sun is the main source of heat and other sources of heat are wood, coal, gas and oil (kerosene, petrol, diesel).</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Heat may be produced from other forms of energy, such as mechanical energy, chemical energy and electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Change of state: When heat is applied, solids generally turn into liquids and liquids turn into vapours.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">But when heat is removed, the situation is reversed, i.e. vapours turn into liquids and liquids turn into solids.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">However, temperature does not change as long as the change of state continues to take place.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Exceptions- some solids such as camphor, iodine, naphthalene, ammonium chloride etc. turn into vapour directly when heat is applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">This incident is called distillation.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Expansion of matter: When heat is applied, expansion takes place in length, area and volume of an object.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">All the three kinds of expansion may take place in solids but in liquids and gases expansion takes place in volume only.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Chemical change: Sometimes chemical reaction takes place on application of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">For example, when carbon is heated it reacts with oxygen of air to form carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Combustion: Heat helps combustion of combustible substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Kerosene, petrol, paper, wood, etc. burn on heating.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Production of light: Application of excessive heat leads to incandescence of a substance i.e. light is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The filament of an electric bulb emits light when it is heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Suppose, you are given a glass of water and a cup of tea.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Touch the glass of water, you will feel cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Touch the cup of tea, you will feel warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We say that the temperature of a cup of tea is higher than that of a glass of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The temperature of a hot object is high and that of a cold object is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">It means temperature of an object is a measure of how much hot or cold the object is.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In other words, temperature is the thermal condition of an object.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Now drop out some water from the glass and pour tea from the cup into the glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Now touch the glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">You will feel it warmer than before.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Temperature of tea was higher than that of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">But when tea was mixed with water, heat was transferred from tea to water and the temperature of water increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">In the same way, if a piece of hot iron is immersed into water, iron turns cold and water turns hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">This happens when heat flows from hot iron to cold water, i.e. from iron of higher temperature to water of lower temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Iron becomes cold by releasing heat and water becomes hot by absorption of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Heat flows from objects of higher temperature to objects of lower temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Therefore, it can be said that temperature is the thermal condition of a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">It determines which body will release heat or receive the same from the other when the two are kept in contact.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Temperature of an object increases when it receives heat and decreases when it gives out heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">That is, heat is the cause and temperature is the result.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Take a cup of water from a bucket of hot water.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Temperature of the water of the bucket and that of the cup is the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">But the amount of heat in the bucket with much water is greater than the amount of heat in the cup with less water.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">So, the two objects with the same temperature may differ in the amount of heat in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Conversely, the two objects even with the same amount of heat may differ in temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Heat is a form of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Temperature of an object increases when it receives heat, but decreases when it gives out heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">It means heat is the cause of temperature (Exception: Heat does not increase during melting and boiling).</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Flow of heat from one object to another does not depend on the amount of heat in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The amount of heat of two objects may be the same but their temperature may be different.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The name of the instrument used to measure heat is calorimeter.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Unit of heat is known as calorie in C. G. S unit and Joule in S.I. unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Experiment: You can practice this experiment in your home.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Take three bowls or such other containers.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Pour cold water in one; slightly warm water in another and hot water that your hands can endure in the third bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Now immerse one hand (say right hand) in hot water and the other in cold water.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Count up to sixty in imagination.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Now raise both the hands and immerse them in warm water immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">How do you feel?</sent>
				<sent id ="105">You will feel that the same water gives you the sensation of cold in your right hand and hot in your left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Therefore, temperature of an object cannot be determined correctly by means of touch.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">For correct measurement, an instrument is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The name of the instrument used to measure temperature is thermometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Temperature is the thermal condition of an object.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Temperature is the result of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Direction of the flow of heat depends on temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Two objects may be of the same temperature but the amount of heat in them may be different.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The name of the instrument used to measure temperature is thermometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Unit of temperature is degree Celsius in C.G.S unit and Kelvin in S.I. unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">We cannot see temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">So, it cannot be measured directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The volume of a liquid changes with the change of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">This change can be observed and measured.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Temperature is measured indirectly by using this property of liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Liquids such as alcohol, mercury etc. are used for this purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The type of thermometer that uses mercury as an indicator of temperature is called the mercury thermometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">It consists of a thick-walled glass tube with a narrow and uniform bore.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">At one end, there is a thin walled bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The other end is kept open at first.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The bulb is filled with pure and dry mercury through the open end.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The bulb is heated and cooled again and again to fill the bulb with mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">After filling the bulb, a little portion of the tube is also filled with mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Now the entry end of mercury is heated so that mercury reaches the neck of the tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">At this stage, the open end with mercury is heated and closed by melting glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Next the tube is cooled.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">As a result, mercury comes down.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The rest of the tube does not contain anything except a small amount of mercury vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The tube is then graduated according to a fixed scale for measuring temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The bore in the tube of the thermometer is extremely narrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">So, mercury goes upward to a great extent if the temperature of the bulb slightly increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The walls of the bulb are thin so that heat can pass through it quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">But the tube is thick to make it strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">You know that in order to measure anything the first step is to fix a unit of the thing as a standard for measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">In measuring temperature, two fixed temperatures are considered as standards.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">These are known as the fixed points one is the lower fixed point and the other, the upper fixed point.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The lower fixed-point: The temperature at which pure ice melts under normal atmospheric pressure is called the lower fixed point.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The upper fixed-point: The temperature at which pure water boils to vapour under normal atmospheric pressure is called the upper fixed point.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The interval between the upper fixed point and the lower fixed point is called the fundamental or primary.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">This interval is divided into a suitable number of equal divisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Each division is said to be one degree.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">There are different scales of temperature depending on the different number of divisions in the fundamental interval.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Presently, two scales of temperature are followed-they are the Celsius scale and the Fahrenheit scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Celsius, a Swedish scientist invented this scale in the year of The scale is named the Celsius scale after his name.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">This scale is used in all types of scientific work.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Many of the countries including ours use this scale.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">As the interval between the two points is divided into 100 equal divisions, it is also called centigrade (centi means 100 and grade means division).</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Fahrenheit scale: In this scale, the lower fixed point is marked 32? and the upper fixed point is marked 212?.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The interval between the two points is divided into 180 equal divisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">You know that matter can exist in three states- solid, liquid and gaseous.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The most common example is the three states of water- ice, water and vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Ice when heated, turns into water.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Water when heated, turns into vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The opposite also happens.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">This does not happen to water only.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Almost all the matters may have solid, liquid and gaseous states, if they are heated or cooled enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The process in which a solid turns into a liquid due to heat is called melting point.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Temperature of a solid increases when it is heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">At a certain temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">the solid starts to melt.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">This temperature remains fixed until the whole of the solid turns into liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">This fixed temperature is called the melting point of the solid.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Now if heating is continued, the temperature of the liquid continues to increase again.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">At a certain temperature, the liquid starts to boil and vaporise.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">This temperature remains fixed until the whole of the liquid turns into vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">This fixed temperature is called the boiling point of the liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Does someone remain vigilant with a thermometer throughout the day and night to measure the maximum and minimum temperature at a certain time?</sent>
				<sent id ="172">No, it does not happen so, it needs not.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Because scientists have invented a special type of thermometer to measure the maximum and minimum temperature of a certain time.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">This thermometer is called the maximum and minimum thermometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Two separate thermometers may measure the maximum and the minimum temperatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">But the same thermometer may measure them also.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">It is a U-shaped narrow glass tube with two bulbs A and B at the two ends (figure 1.4).</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Bulb A is small and bulb B is big and long.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The part of the tube from C to D contains mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">A part above D and some part of the bulb A are filled with alcohol.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The rest of the bulb A is empty but contains some vapours of alcohol.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">There are two metal indicators S1 and S2 at the two ends of the tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The indicators are tightly fitted with the walls of the tube by springs.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The instrument is kept vertically in a wooden frame.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">The two sides of the tube are fitted with two scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Now when temperature increases, alcohol of the bulb B expands and pushes the mercury column.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">As a result, the mercury column of the left side rises upward and pushes the indicator S2 up.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Again when temperature decreases, alcohol of bulb B contracts and pushes the indicator S1 up.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">But indicator S2 stays in its last position due to its spring.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Positions of S1 and S2 are noted from the scales S1 indicates the minimum and S2 indicates the maximum temperature of that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Thermometer of this type is usually used in forecasting weather and agricultural research.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Expansion of solids - Coefficient of expansion Most of the solids expand in length, area and volume by the application of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Someimes this expansion is so minor that we cannot see it with normal vision of our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The following experiment demonstrates the expansion of a solid.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Experiment: This experiment is known as the ring and ball experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">A brass ball and a ring are so made that the ball can simply pass through the ring when it is cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">But when the ball is heated for a while and placed on the ring, it does not pass through the ring.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">This happens because the application of temperature increases the volume of the ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">After a while, when the ball becomes cold, it will be found that the ball has hanging passed through the ring again.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This proves that when a solid is heated it expands and when it is cooled it contracts.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">All solids do not expand equally even though heat is applied to them to the same extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Some expand a great and the others expand a little.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">In order to compare the rates of expansion of different solids, the idea of coefficients of expansion is considered.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The expansion of length, area or volume for raising one degree of temperature is known as coefficient.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Coefficient of linear expansion: Coefficient of linear expansion is defined as increase in per unit length of the solid for raising one degree of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Coefficient of superficial expansion: Coefficient of superficial expansion is defined as an increase per unit area of a solid for raising one degree of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Coefficient of Volumetric expansion: Coefficient of Volumetric expansion is defined as an increase per unit volume of a solid for raising one degree of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Coefficient of expansion does not depend on the unit of length, area or volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It depends only on the scale of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">How is this iron tyre fitted on?</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The diameter of the iron tyre is slightly smaller than the diameter of the wheel.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">First the tyre is heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">As a result, it expand in circumference.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">While it is hot, it is fitted on the wheel and is cooled by pouring water on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">It contracts due to cold and fits tightly on the wheel.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">What will you do then?</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Heat the neck of the bottle if it is made of metal substances and you will see that it now opens easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Sometimes a thick glass breaks into pieces when hot water or tea is poured into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The reason is that, the inner part of the glass expands due to the heat of water or tea.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">But the outer part does not become so much hot and expand.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Due to unequal expansion inside and outside, the glass breaks into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">You may have seen that there is a gap between two consecutive rails of a rail line.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">What is the cause of it?</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The iron rails turn hot when a train runs on it due to the friction of wheels with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">As a result, the lines increase in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">If there is no gap left between the rails the lines will be twisted.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">This is why gap is kept in between two rails.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">You may have further observed that telephone, telegraph or electrical wires are joined loosely between two pillars.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">This is done with a purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">During winter or at night, temperature decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">As a result, wire contracts and becomes smaller in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">If the wire is stretched tightly it may be torn due to contraction.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Experiment: Fill up a flask made of glass with coloured water.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Close the mouth of the flask with a cork and insert a narrow glass tube through the cork.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">You will see that a small amount of coloured water has come up through the tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Make a mark on the tube indicating the level of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Now apply heat to the flask.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">What is its reason?</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The reason is that the flask gets heated first and expands in volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">But water does not expand, as it has not yet been hot enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">This causes the level of water to fall down first.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Later water gets heated and expands in volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">So, the height continues to increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">This experiment further proves that with the same increase in temperature, the expansion of a liquid is much higher than the expansion of a solid.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">A liquid has no fixed shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">It has only volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">So, liquids expand only in volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Thermometer is constructed using the principle of expansion of liquids.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Experiment: Take a big glass flask.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Close the mouth of the flask with a cork.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Insert a narrow glass tube through the cork.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Drop into the tube a few drop of coloured water.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">You will see that the drops of water go down through the tube a little and come to rest somewhere at A in the tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Now rub your hands several times to make your palms hot and hold the flask tightly in your hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">You will observe that the coloured drops of water have gone up in the tube at A.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">This is because heat from hands made the air inside the flask hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">As the hot air expands in volume, the drops of water go up to make room for the expanded gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The expansion of gaseous substance is much higher than the expansion of a solid or liquid for the same amount of increase in temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Gaseous substances expand in volume only.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
