<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-sci-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.162</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">227</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2902</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">819</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t70">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">What is atmosphere?</sent>
				<sent id ="2">You have learnt in class VI what air is.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Air is an element.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The earth is surrounded by air.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">It may be said that we live at the bottom of a vast and deep ocean of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">If you go up by an aeroplane, will you get the same air as you get on earth?</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Will the density, composition and temperature of air remain the same?</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Scientists have observed that when one goes up higher, the air becomes lighter and its temperature and amount of constituent gases changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">At the end, there will be no existence of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">It is not yet known correctly as to how above the air exists.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">This vast and invisible air surrounding the earth is called atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The gravitational force of earth attracts the atmosphere around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The earth rotates along with the atmosphere attached to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Atmosphere is divided into five layers according to composition, density, temperature and other characteristics of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">This is the lowest layer of the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">It has touched the earth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Most of the air of the atmosphere, about 75% of the atmospheric weight, belongs to this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The air of this layer contains dust particles, moisture and clouds.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Natural events such as wind, rain, storm, lightning etc. occur in this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">This is why, this layer is also called the weather layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">There exists difference in temperature of the air in this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">When one goes up higher from the earth the density and temperature of air of this layer also decreases. .</sent>
				<sent id ="23">So, this layer is called troposphere or densed sphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">This layer extends upto 16 kilometres from the earth's surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">We live in this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">This layer protects us from the extreme heat of the sun during the daylight.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Again for this layer, cold cannot be severe during night.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">This layer also protects us from various fatal rays coming from the space.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The next layer above the troposphere is the stratosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">This layer extends over about 50 kilometres.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The air in this region is very light and almost no moisture exists.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">For this, this layer is called the cool sphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">There is no storm, rain or thunder.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">This layer is gradually with the increase in altitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">This layer extends over 30 kilometres just above stratosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">This layer mostly contains Ozone gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">This is why it is known as Ozonosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Heat absorption capacity of Ozone gas is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">This layer absorbs the solar heat and ultra violet rays.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">As a result, this layer has a high temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Ozone gas in the upper part of the layer is higher, its temperature decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Ultraviolet rays are very harmful to the living world.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">This layer protects the living world of the earth by absorbing ultra-violet rays.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Ionosphere lies above the ozonosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">This layer extends over 300 kilometres from the end of the Ozonosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Various gases such as Hydrogen, Helium etc. exist in this layer in ionised state.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Charged particles are called ions.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">This is why, this layer is termed as Ionosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">This layer has a special characteristic of reflecting radio waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Radio waves transmitted from a radio station are reflected by this layer and can reach far away locations.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Therefore, you, who stay far away from a radio station, can listen to the radio programmes by receiving them in radio.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Aurora or polar lights are seen in this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Temperature of this layer is very high as this layer absorbs various rays coming from the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">These two are the highest layers of atmosphere and exist above the ionosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Space begins at the end of this layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">These layers extend over 400 kms to 750 kms from the surface of earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Air is very light in these layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Mainly hydrogen gas exists in ionized state and nitrogen and oxygen do not exist in these layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">We know that air has weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">In the case of a particular atmospheric layer, the weight of the air of other layers above it falls on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Air exerts force downward due to its weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">As a result, pressure is created.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">In this way, the pressure that atmosphere exerts on any plane attached to it is known as atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The word pressure refers to the magnitude of force applied on unit area.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">So, atmospheric pressure means a magnitude of pressure applied by the atmosphere on a unit area of a place.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">This force is equal to the weight of the air falling vertically on a unit area.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Air is very light.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The density of air is about one thousandth of the density of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">But atmosphere extends over hundreds of kilometres above the surface of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">This vast and deep atmosphere exerts much pressure on us.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The pressure per square centimetre is about 10 Newton i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">I kg weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Since we are accustomed to live in such a pressure, we do not feel it.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Besides we have air inside our body also.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The pressure inside our body maintains equilibrium with the outside pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Our blood has pressure too.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">This pressure is slightly higher than the atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The earth's surface lies at the bottom of atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">So, the atmospheric pressure on the earth's surface is the highest.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The more we go upwards, the more the pressure diminishes since the amount of air diminishes with the altitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Air does not exert pressure downward only.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Like liquids, air exerts pressure in all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">We can prove it by experiments.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Take a thin tin can.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Be sure that its lid closes the can perfectly airtight.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Firstly, open the lid and pour a little water into the can.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Apply heat to the can till water boils.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">water will vaporize and go out of the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Stop heating before most of the water turns into vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Close the can quickly with the lid and make it airtight.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Now cool the can by pouring water over it.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">You will observe that the more the can cools, the more the can buckles inward.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">What may be the reason for it?</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Air has upward pressure: Fill up a glass completely with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Carefully cover the glass with a card so that there is no air inside the glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Hold the card tight to the glass with one hand and invert the glass with the other hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Now remove your hand from the card.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">You will see that the card sticks to the glass and does not fall down.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">What did we prove from this experiment?</sent>
				<sent id ="100">There is no air but only water inside the glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">This water exerts downward pressure on the card.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Since the card does not fall down due to this downward pressure, there must be an upward pressure of air on the card.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">In this case, the upward pressure of air is higher than the downward pressure of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">So, the experiment proves that air has upward pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Air has downward pressure: Take a tin can with one end open and the other end connected with a tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Tie the open end of the can with a sheet of rubber fitting perfectly airtight.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Connect the bottom tube to an air suction pump.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">This happens due to the downward pressure of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">At the beginning, there was air both inside and out side the can.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">As air pressures on both sides of the rubber sheet was equal, the sheet remained stretched.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Later when air is sucked out, pressure inside the can decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">At this time, the pressure due to outside air depresses the sheet inside and after a while it bursts out.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Thus the experiment proves that air has downward pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He used two hollow and hard metal hemispheres.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The hemispheres were so made that they could be fitted perfectly airtight.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">One of the hemispheres was fitted with a tube through which air could be sucked out.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">He fitted the hemispheres airtight and sucked out the air from inside the hemispheres by a suction pump.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">It was observed that the hemispheres could not be separated even when they were strongly pulled by holding their handles.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">This happens because there was no outward pressure from inside the hemispheres due to the sucking out of air inside them.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">As a result, air pressure from all sides pressed the hemispheres very hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">When there is air inside the hemispheres, they can be easily separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">This is because pressure of air inside and outside the hemispheres are equal at this time.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This experiment proves that air pressure in all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Guericke in his original experiment used two hemispheres with the diameter of about 60 centimetres each.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">When air from inside was exhausted, even a group of sixteen horses, eight on each side, failed to separate the two hemispheres.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Now you may think, how tremendous the influence of atmospheric pressure is.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Torricelli was an Italian scientist.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Later on, closing the open end with a finger, the tube was inverted vertically over a trough of mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">As soon as the finger is removed from the open end, the mercury column descended a little.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The mercury column came to rest at a height of about 76 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The vacant space above mercury surface in the tube contained no air.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">This space without air is known as Torricellian vacuum.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Torricelli explained the event stating that atmosphere exerts downward pressure on the free surface of the mercury in the trough.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">According to Pascal's theory, this pressure is transmitted throughout the liquid in all directions with magnitude undiminished.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">It thus exerts pressure on the mercury inside the tube in the upward direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">This pressure keeps the mercury column inside the tube standing.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It is also evident that the space above the mercury column inside the tube is devoid of air.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">So, there is no air pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The outside pressure on the same surface of mercury is the atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Since these two pressures are equal, they maintain equilibrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Therefore, it is only the atmospheric pressure that keeps the mercury column inside the tube standing.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">If the tube is further inclined, the vacuum is completely filled up by mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">This proves that Torricellian vacuum does not contain air.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">In fact, the place is not totally vacant- a small amount of mercury vapour exists there.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The length of the Torricellian vacuum decreases or increases as the tube is gradually moved up and down keeping its open end dipped inside mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">But this does not cause any change in the height of the mercury column inside the tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">This shows that the height of the mercury column depends on the atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Mercury column rises upto the extent as much as atmospheric pressure can support it.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In a one-end open-air free tube, mercury rises up due to atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The mercury column is high as much as it can be supported by the atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Pressure exerted by the mercury column of the tube is equal to the pressure of the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Though Torricelli used mercury in his experiment, any liquid may be used to perform the same with the same result.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">However, the height of the liquid column depends on the density of the liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">If the density is low, the height increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">We observed from Torricelli's experiment that the atmospheric pressure is equal to the pressure of mercury column.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">If the height of the mercury column is 76 cm, the atmospheric pressure is equal to the pressure of a mercury column of 76 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It means atmospheric pressure is equal to the weight of the mercury of column 76 cm high on a unit area.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">This is how Torricelli first measured atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">For this reason, atmospheric pressure of a place is expressed in terms of the height of the mercury column.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">For example, atmospheric pressure is 76 cm of mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">This means, atmospheric pressure is the pressure of 76 cm high mercury column.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Normal atmospheric pressure Atmospheric pressure varies from place to place on the surface of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Atmospheric pressure at any place depends on the altitude, latitude and temperature of the place.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Therefore, standard or normal atmospheric pressure is considered to be the atmospheric pressure at a definite altitude, definite latitude and definite temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The name of the instrument used to measure atmospheric pressure is Barometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Barometer may be of different kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Liquid is used in some cases, for example, mercury barometer, water barometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">In others no liquid is used, for example, aneroid barometer etc. Fortin's barometer is used for accuracy in measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Construction of this type of barometer is a bit complicated.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">You will know about it in the higher classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The instrument, which Torricelli used in his experiment, was a simple mercury barometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It means, it is a glass tube of one square cm diameter and one meter long with thick walls and closed at one end.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The tube is filled with mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Care is taken so that no air bubble exists inside the tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Later on, closing the open end with a finger, the tube is inverted and dipped vertically in a trough of mercury.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The finger is removed and mercury falls down a little inside the tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The height of mercury up to the point where mercury comes to rest represents the atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Height is measured from a scale attached to the tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Simple mercury barometers are used in places where there is no need to know the atmospheric pressure minutely.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The height of mercury column increases if pressure increases and the height decreases if pressure decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Manometer is a device to measure pressure difference.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It is a U shaped glass tube with both ends open.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The tube is partly filled with any liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Mercury is used to measure major differences in pressure, whereas oil, alcohol or water is used to measure minor differences.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">When both ends of the tube are open, pressure on both sides are equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">So, the height of the liquid at both ends is also equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">When the liquid is still, A and B are on the same level.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The difference of pressure between the two sides of the tube is calculated from height H.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">you might have listened this type of weather forecast from radio, television or have read in newspapers.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">It is very important to know about atmospheric pressure to forecast weather.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The condition of weather depends on atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Because atmospheric pressure depends on the temperature of air and the amount of moisture in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Air becomes lighter when its temperature increases resulting in decrease in air pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Air pressure also decreases due to the increase of moisture since moisture is lighter than dry air.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">So, weather may be predicted for a place by observing changes in its atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">A gradual decrease in atmospheric pressure indicates the increase of moisture in air and possibility to rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">A sudden decrease in atmospheric pressure indicates the formation of a low pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">So, there is a possibility of rushing of air from all around to that area, which may forecast a storm or cyclone.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">If air pressure increases gradually, amount of moisture in air decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">It means an improvement in the weather condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The weather will be dry and the sky will be clear.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">This is how weather may be predicted from atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Atmospheric pressure is determined from the readings of a barometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">An increase in the height of the mercury column of a barometer means an increase in atmospheric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">There are many practical applications of air pressure in our day-to-day life.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Often, we use a narrow plastic tube or straw to drink liquids such as Coca- cola, seven up or others.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">What do we do then?</sent>
				<sent id ="208">We dip one end of the tube into the drink and suck from other end the air inside the tube by our mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">As a result, air pressure inside the tube decreases and that outside the tube forces the drink into our mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Have you ever seen a doctor pushing an injection?</sent>
				<sent id ="211">In injections, doctors use a syringe which has a needle with a fine hole in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">piston is so tightly fitted with the walls of the syringe that air can not pass through the sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">As a result, pressure inside the syringe decreases and liquid enters into the syringe through the needle due to air pressure from outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">When the needle is withdrawn from the liquid, it is again the air pressure which forces the liquid not to come out of the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">A spray also works on this principle.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The device used to transfer liquid from one container to another without moving the containers is known as siphon.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">It is a U-shaped (h1, h2) glass, rubber or plastic tube with both the ends open.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The two sides of the tube are unequal.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The longer arm is dipped into the other vessel.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The first vessel is kept at a higher level than that of the second vessel.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">It is observed that liquid flows through the tube from the upper vessel to the lower one.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Siphon has many practical applications.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">For example, siphon technique is used to fill up a small container with oil from a big drum.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Flushing system in a modern toilet works on the same principle.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">A bicycle pump and a vacuum pump represent two more examples of practical application of air pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">If you have a bi-cycle or play football, you may have used the bi-cycle pump.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Often the principle of a vacuum pump is used in the brakes of vehicles.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
