<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-sci-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.263</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">250</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3083</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1018</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t74">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Leaf is an organ of a plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">We have learnt in class-VI about leaf, its characteristics, classification and different parts; like leaf base, petiole and lamina.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Now in class seven, we will learn about the longevity, shape and classification of leaves based on the capacity to get sunlight;</sent>
				<sent id ="4">modified leaves and stems; flower and its parts; classification of flower, inflorescence and pollination and origin of ftuits.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Leaves are classified on the basis of longevity into three groups;</sent>
				<sent id ="6">such as- I) Caducous: The leaves that fall off after they bloom from the leaf buds are called caducous.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Example: Opuntia (Phonimonsha), Acacia (Akash moni) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">2) Deciduous: The leaves that remain on the plant for one season or one year and fall at last are called deciduous leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Example: Silk cotton (Shimul), Sal etc. Plants with deciduous leaves are called deciduous plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Forests of deciduous plants are called deciduous forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">3) Persistent: The leaves which remain on the plant for long time are called persistent leaves; such as Polyalthia (Debdaru).</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The plants with persistent leaves are called evergreen plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Forests with evergreen plants are called evergreen forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Example of evergreen forests are the Sundarbans, forests of Chittagong Hill Tracts etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">1) Dorsiventral leaf: When the leaf exists horizontal to the ground is called dorsiventral leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The leaves do not get sun light equally on both sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">So, the upper surface is deep green and the lower surface is light green.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Example: Leaves of Mango, Jackfruit, Banyan tree etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">2) Isobilateral leaf: When the flat green leaf blade remain more or less vertical, then it is called isobilateral leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Sun light falls more or less equally on both sides, so both the surfaces of the leaf are equally green.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Example: leaves of Paddy, Grass, Sugarcane etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">3) Centric leaf: This leaf is cylindrical in shape and remain in vertical position and gets equal light all around the leaf surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Example: Onion leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">When leaves or leaflets of some plants are modified to perform some specific functions; are called modified leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Example: Pea, Opuntia, Onion etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Some types of modified leaves are discussed below:</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Leaf tendril: In Pea plants the entire leaf blade or some of its parts are modified to tendrils.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It helps the plant in climbing.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Leaf spine: Leaves of some plants modify into sharp spines; such as Opuntia, Date palm etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">These spines protect them from attack of herbivorous animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Scale leaves: Onion, Garlic, Turmeric, Zinger develop underground modified stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The leaf blades of these plants are modified into thin and non green leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Scale leaves may be dry and thin or juicy and fleshy.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">These plants are called insectivorous plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The leaf blade of a pitcher plant is modified into a pitcher and the leaf apex functions as a lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">When an insect enters into the pitcher, the lid is closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The insect gradually dies and its body is digested by secreting different types of enzymes.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The leaf blades of Dischidia, an epiphytic plant, is modified into a pitcher for storage of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Roots developed from the nodes enter into the pitcher and absorb water for the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">These plants are found in the hilly areas of Sylhet region.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Leaves of Aloe vera (Ghreto kumari), Onion, Garlic etc. store foods and become thick and juicy.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Leaves of Bryophyllum (Pathar kuchi) also store food and become thick and juicy.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Some buds develop from it which help in vegetative reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">In class-VI we have learnt about which is stem; its different parts, structures and functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">In this class we shall learn about modifications of stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The stems whose shapes are not as like as a normal stem; then it is called a modified stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Example: tuber of Potato, rhizome of Zinger etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Modified stems are mainly of three types Under ground modified stems, Sub aerial modified stems and Aerial modified stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Normally stems remain above the ground level.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">But when the stem stay under the ground then it is called underground modified stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">They are colourless or grey coloured and have no green leaves as they remain under the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Still they are different from roots because they show characteristic features of stems; such as scale leaves, nodes and internodes, axillary and apical buds etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Their main functions are to protect plants from unfavourable environment, vegetative reproduction and storage of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">T 1) Rhizome: Stems that stay and grow horizontally and become swollen due to storage of food, are called rhizome.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">They bear nodes, internodes, scale leaves and apical and axillary buds.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Every year in favourable environment the aerial leaves are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">When these leaves dry up and fall, a scar is produced on the rhizome.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Adventitious roots are developed from the underside of the rhizome.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Example: Zinger, Turmeric, Indian arrow root (Shati), etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">2) Tuber: When apical portion of underground branches swell up and form a spherical or egg like fleshy structure then they are called tuber; e.g.Potato.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The eye of Potato bears scale leaf and axillary bud.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">It has roots, buds, nodes and internodes.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Example: Telega potato (Ol kachu).</sent>
				<sent id ="64">4) Bulb: The underground stem that looks like a small conical disc is called a bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Example- Onion, Garlic etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The place from where adventitious roots develop in Onion and Garlic is the bulb stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Many nodes and internodes are compressed together in bulb stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Tunicated bulb: The bulb where one scale leaf surrounds the other and the outer leaf becomes dry, is called tunicated bulb; such as Onion.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Scaly bulb: The bulb where the fleshy scale leaf does not surround another scale leaf, rather it remains free, is called a scally bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Example: Tulip, Lilly, Garlic etc. B.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Sub aerial modified stems In some plants a portion of stem remains above the ground; while the rest remain in the soil;</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Example:- Indian pennywort (Thankuni), Arum (Kachu), Water hyacinth (Kochuripana), Mint (Pudina) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">These stems are called sub aerial modified stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Their main function is vegetative reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">1) Runner: It grows horizontally on the soil surface arising from the ground level axillary buds.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Its internodes are very long.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Adventitious roots are developed from undersurface of nodal region and buds are developed on the upper surface of these nodes.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">This buds develop as new plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Example: Oxalis, Indian pennywort etc. 2) Offset: It is like a runner but its internodes are thick and short.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It is normally found in floating plants; such as Water hyacinth (Kachuripana), Topa pana etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">3) Stolon: It develops from the lower buds near the soil surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">It grows parallel to the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Its internodes bends like an arch and remains partially under the soil surface and partially above the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The nodes touch the ground after travelling for certain distance; such as Arum (Kachu).</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Roots grow from the undersurface of these branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Example: Mint (Pudina), Plantain (Kanchakola), Chrysanthemum etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Some aerial stems or their parts modify in such a way that it becomes difficult to identify them as stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">These are aerial modified stems.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">They perform functions like manufacture of food, self defense, help climbing and vegetative reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">They are of five types; such as Phylloclade Cladode Thorn Stem tendril and Bulbil.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">1) Phylloclade : When an aerial stem modifies and become flat and green; it is called Phylloclade.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Its leaves fall when in bud or modify into spines.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">It has nodes and inter nodes and buds.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">These buds develop into new branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">A mature Phyloclade poduces flowers in appropriate time Example- Opuntia (Phonimonosha).</sent>
				<sent id ="96">2) Cladode: When aerial stems modified to needle like one inter node structure; it is called a Cladode.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The leaves fall off at bud stage or modify into spines; such as Asparagus (Satamuli).</sent>
				<sent id ="98">3) Thorn: In some cases the axillary bud of an aerial stem does not bear leaves, branches and flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">It becomes modified into a strong and sharp thorny structure, called Thorn.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Example- Wood apple, Thorn apple (Dhutura) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">4) Stem tendril: When axillary buds modify into spiral string like structure, it is called a stem tendril.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">It helps the plant in climbing.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Example- Passiflora( Jhumko lata) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">5) Bulbil: When axillary buds do not grow normally and take the shape of a rounded fleshy structure; called bulbil.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">These bulbils give rise to new plants when get detached from the mother plant and fall on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Example: Dioscorea ( Gach aloo ).</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Flower is an important organ of a plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">We see various kinds of flowers around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Usually we see the flower blooming at the apex of a branch.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Moreover, some flowers grow from the branches of a plant but in Jackfruit we can see flowers growing on the main stem also.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Like other organs of a plant, the flower has different parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The parts are Floral axis, Calyx, Corolla, Androecium and Gynoecium.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Now we have learnt that the part with floral axis, calyx, corolla, androecium and gynoecium is called a flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Now let us know about different parts of a typical flower in details.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Different parts of a complete flower The flower with floral axis, calyx, corolla, androecium and .gynoecium is called a complete flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Example: China rose, Thorn apple, Mustard etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">A complete flower has five parts such as Floral axis, Calyx, Corolla, 4) Androecium and Gynoecium.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Floral axis: The axis on which calyx, corolla, androecium and gynoecium are arranged is called floral axis.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It has two parts; such as Pedicel and Thalamus.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">a) Pedicel: A stick like slender structure under the flower is called pedicel.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">It is the stalk of a flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Flower with pedicel is called pedicellate flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">When the pedicel is absent, the flower is termed sessile.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">China rose is a pedicellate flower and Tube rose is an example of sessile flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">b)Thalamus: It is the apical swollen end of pedicel.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Calyx, corolla, androecium and gynoecium are called floral leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The floral leaves are arranged on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">This swollen and flat portion of the floral axis is called thalumus.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Function of thalamus: To keep the flower attached to the stem;.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">bear the whorls of floral leaves and exchange of food materials between the stem and floral leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Calyx: The outer most whorl is called calyx.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">It is green and are divided into small.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Each part is known as sepal.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">In exceptional cases the calyx may be of different colour; e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Sepals when united together is called gamosepalous calyx.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Example: Thorn apple (Dhutura).</sent>
				<sent id ="137">But when each part is free, it is called polysepalous.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Sometimes extra whorl is found below the calyx; called epicalyx.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Example: China rose (Joba).</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Functions of calyx: Main function of calyx is to protect the flower bud from rain, storm, temperature and diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Green calyx can manufacture food like normal leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Persistent calyx protects the flower, while a colourful calyx helps pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Corolla: The whorl next to calyx is the corolla.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Each part of corolla is called a petal.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Total number of petals makes a corolla.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Petals may remain united or separate.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In Gourd and Thorn apple (Dhutura ), petals are united.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">But in Radish and Mustard flowers petals are separate.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">It may be white, yellow, red, blue and other colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Usually corolla is bright and fragrant.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Functions of corolla: Corolla protects androecium and gynoecium.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Bright coloured and fragrant corolla attracts insects resulting in pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Androecium: Whorl inside the corolla is called androecium.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Each part of the androecium is called stamen.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Filament: The slender and soft stalk like part of the androecium is the filament.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Anther: The swollen structure on the filament is the anther.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Anther produces large Number of pollen grains inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Usually anther is divided lengthwise into two chambers.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Each chamber is termed as pollen chamber.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">In China rose anther is one chambered.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Stamen is the male reproductive organ of the flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Pollen grains, produced in pollen sack inside the anther, take part in reproduction through pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">c) Connective: The portion of filament attached to the anther is called connective.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Functions of Androecium: Production of pollen grains is the main function of androecium.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">5) Gynoecium : The inner most whorl of flower is called gynoceium.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It consists of one or more carpels.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Ovary : The swollen part of gynoecium found on the thalamus is the ovary.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">It contains ovules and each ovule produce egg cells inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Style: The thin long tube like part above the ovary is called the style.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Stigma: The swollen part at top of the style is the stigma.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Functions of gynoecium: Main function of gynoecium is to produce eggs inside the ovules.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">After fertilization ovary turns into a fruit and the ovules into seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Based on structure, flowers are variously classified.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Out of these only two types of classifications are discussed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">a) Complete flower: A flower is called comptete when it bears all the four whorls of floral leaves like calyx, corolla, androecium and gynoecium.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Example- Rose, China rose, Thorn apple (Dhtura), Mustard etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">b) Incomplete flower: When a flower bears less than four floral whorls; it is called an incomplete flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Here one or two whorls are absent.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Example- Bottle gourd (Lau), Gourd (Misti kumra) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">a) Unisexual flower: When a flower has either androecium or gynoecium, it is called unisexual flower; such as- Bottle gourd (Lau), Gourd (Misti kumra) etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">All unisexual flowers are incomplete flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Unisexual flowers are of two types: Male flowers and ii) Female flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">i) Male flower: When a flower bears only androecium, it is called male flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">ii) Female flower: When a flower bears only gynoecium, it is called a female flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">b) Bisexual flower: When both androecium and gynoecium are present in the same flower; it is called a bisexual flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Example- China rose, Thorn apple (Dhutura), Rose etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">In China rose, Thorn apple (Dhutura) and Rose plants; a single flower grows at the leaf axil.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Marigold, Sunflower, Plantain etc. produce a large number of flowers in a bunch.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">These are not a single flower but actually a bunch of small flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">It is an inflorescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The special branch or branch system bearing a cluster of flowers is called an inflorescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Depending on the position of the peduncle on the branch or stem, inflorescences are of two types: Apical inflorescence and i Axillary inflorescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">i) Apical inflorescence: The inflorescence that develops from the apical bud of the stem or branches; is called apical inflorescence; such as-Mustard.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">ii) Axillary inflorescence: The inflorescence that grows from the axillary bud, is called axillary inflorescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Example- Coconut, Pamyra palm etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Based on the growth of apical bud of the peduncle, inflorescences are of two types: a) Recemose inflorescence and Cymose inflorescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">This classification was proposed by Greek scientist Theophrastus, some hundred years before Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The peduncle that grows indeflnitely and the flowers bloom in acropetal or centripetal succession, is called recemose inflorescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Example: Mustard, Mango, Paddy, Arum,Plantain, etc. Flowers bloom from the base towards the apex of the peduncle.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">It is known as acropetal succession.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">b) Flowers bloom from periphery to the center of the receptacle.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">It is called centripetal succession.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">c) In this inflorescence, the position of the youngest flower is at the apex of the peduncle or at the centre of the receptacle.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The inflorescence in which the flowers bloom at basipetal (from top towards base) or centrifugal (from centre towards the periphery) succession is called cymose inflorescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Example-Heliotropium (Hatisur), Clerodendrone(Vant), Night Jasmine (Sheuli), Arabian Jasmine (Beli), etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Characteristics of cymose inflorescence a) Flowers bloom from top towards the base.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">It is called basipetal succession.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">b) When flowers are arranged on the receptacle the blooming starts from centre towards periphery.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It is called centrifugal succession.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">c) In this inflorescence the youngest flower is formed at the base while the oldest one on the top of the peduncle.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">d) Growth of the peduncle is limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Differences between recemose inflorescence and cymose inflorescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">You might have seen that butterfly, honey bee and various other insects fly from flower to flower when the flowers bloom.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">These insects are attracted by fragrance and colour of the flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">They also collect honey from the flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">While visiting flowers these insects carry pollen grains from anther of one flower to stigma of another flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">This transference of pollen grains from anther to the stigma is the pollination.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Example- Paddy, Silk cotton etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">To transfer pollen grains from the anther of one flower to the stigma of another flower requires some agents, called pollinating agent.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Usually these agents are wind, insects, animals and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The process is named according to the nature of agents; such as Aenemophily:</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The flowers, where pollination takes place through wind are called anemophilous flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The process is anemophily.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Example- Paddy, Wheat, Sugar cane, Maize etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Entomophily: When the pollinating agent is insect, the flower is called an entomophilous flower and the process is entomophily.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Example: Jasmine (Jui) Sunflower, Rose, Mustard, Lotus, Water lily etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">While the insects travel from flower to flower attracted by colour, fragrance and honey; pollen grains are transferred to the stigma of another flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">3) Zoophily: When pollinating agent is varieties of animals (such as sorrel, bat, bird), the flowers are called zoophilous flower and the process is zoophily.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Example - Kadamba, Banana, Arum, Silk Cotton, Polash etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">4) Hydrophily: When pollination occurs through water, the pollination process is hydrophily and the flowers are called hydrophilous flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Example Vallisnaria, Hydrilla etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">In this chapter we have learnt about different parts of a flower; such as stamen, carpel, ovary, ovule, style, stigma, pollen grain, anther etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">We have learnt that eggs are produced inside ovules.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Male gametes are produced from pollen grains.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">When pollen grains are transferred to the stigma; its outer covering burst open and a tube like structure, called pollen tube, comes out.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Pollen tube travels through the style and enters into the ovule inside the ovary.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Male gamete and female gamete (egg) unite and fuse together.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">This process of fusion of male and female gametes is called fertilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Male and female gametes differ in size, shape and physiologic behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Importance of fertilization After fertilization, ovules become seeds; while ovary turns into a fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Seeds ensure the continuity of species.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Animals, birds and man live on fruits and seeds of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Mango, Jambu, Jackfruits, Litchi, Rice, Wheat, Maize, orange, Sugar cane etc. give us food.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">These are the out come err fertilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">So, fertilization is very important process in a plants life.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">We get fruit from the flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Do all parts of a flower turn into a fruit?</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Not all but few parts of the flower form the fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Usually the ovary modifies into a fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">This modification of the ovary does not occur automatically but through fertilization process.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
