<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-sci-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.187</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">227</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2706</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">811</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t71">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In class VI, we have learnt that air is a mixture of different elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The main two components of air are oxygen and nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Besides there, air is a mixture of carbon dioxide, moisture, inert gases and dust particles also.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">You have also learnt the percentage composition of the constituents of air in terms of their volume and weight in class VI.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">So, it can be certainly said one of the two main components of air is oxygen and the other is nitrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">In 1774 Joseph Priestly an English Scientist first discovered oxygen by heating.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">He prepared this analyzing an oxide of mercury (Mercuric Oxide) by heating.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Almost at the same time, a Swedish scientist named Carlshele and a French scientist Lavoisier discovered the same gas through individual experiments.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">French scientist Lavoisier by analyzing the properties of the gas, named it oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The meaning of oxygen is acid producer.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Scientist Lavoisier thought that oxygen is a component of almost all acids.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">That is why he named it oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The compounds which contain huge number of oxygen, by heating any of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Oxygen can be prepared in the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">In class six, we have learnt that by flowing electricity through water containing a small quantity of sulphuric acid, we can get oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">But this is not a good process of preparing oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Because this is very slow and also expensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Generally, two methods of preparation of oxygen are followed in the school laboratory; Mixing hydrogen peroxide with manganese dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Heating a mixture of potassium chlorate and manganese dioxide Let's prepare oxygen in the laboratory by adding hydrogen peroxide with Manganese dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Take a small quantity of manganese dioxide (that can contain upon a 0.5 taka coin) in the clean big test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Fix the two-hole rubber or wooden cork at the mouth of the big test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Pull the hydrogen peroxide with the dropper and insert it into the test tube through one hole of the cork.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Fit the delivery tube as shown in the fig.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">By using wax seal the surface of the cork and the bottom of the dropper as well as the delivery tube carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Now drop a few drops of hydrogen peroxide on the manganese dioxide and observe closely.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">What do you see?</sent>
				<sent id ="27">A chemical reaction has started inside of the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Now by using your thumb, at first shut the mouth of the gas filled test tube and remove it very carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Then shut the mouth of the test tube with a cork and keep it in a test tube stand.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Now with the collected gas of the test tubes do various experiment to test different properties of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">You have observed that the prepared gas pushed down the water of the water filled test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">This method of collecting a gas over water is called downward displacement of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">In this experiment, we took hydrogen peroxide and manganese dioxide in the wide test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Is there any change between the two chemical substances ?</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Yes, there is a chemical reaction inside the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">You have seen that hydrogen peroxide has decomposed into oxygen and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Manganese dioxide has not taken part in the chemical reaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">If manganese dioxide does not take part in the chemical reaction, why it should be used ?</sent>
				<sent id ="39">We will know the answer of the question after a short while.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Before this we will know how oxygen can be prepared if hydrogen peroxide is not available in the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">If hydrogen peroxide is not available in the school, then you can prepare oxygen gas by heating a mixture of potassium chlorate and manganese dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">You can get oxygen by heating potassium chlorate only.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">But it takes much time and heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Mix five parts of potassium chlorate intimately with one part of manganese dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Take the mixture into 4 wide hard glass test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Shut the mouth of the test tube with a one holed rubber cork and then add a delivery tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Now apply heat to the test tube slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Oxygen will come out through the mouth of the delivery tube in the form of bubbles.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">At first allow some gas to come out.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Do you know the reason?</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The inside air of the test tube will come out too.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Now take a water filled test tube, hold it inverted over the mouth of the delivery tube and collect the oxygen in the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">At the time of preparing oxygen from hydrogen peroxide or potassium chlorate we have used manganese dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">We have seen that manganese dioxide was unchanged at the end of the experiment and it did not take part in any chemical reaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">We have said earlier that oxygen can be made if only potassium chlorate is heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Of course, it takes much time and heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">But addition of a small quantity of manganese dioxide helps to produce oxygen within very short time and at low temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Similarly, hydrogen peroxide is decomposed and produce oxygen in presence of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">But this reaction is so slow that it continues for months together.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Presence of a small amount of manganese dioxide decomposed hydrogen peroxide and produces oxygen quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">In no case of above, manganese dioxide takes part in the chemical reaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">In the preparation of oxygen, manganese dioxide acts as a catalyst.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Without being involved in a chemical reaction directly, it can increase the rate of the reaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The matter might have ashtonished you as to how does it happen?</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Suppose, you have gone to a stadium to watch a football match between the Abahoni and the Mohamedan.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">You are a supporter of one of the two team.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Many other supporters of that team like you are encouraging their players often throwing emotional shout and clap.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">With this, the mental strength of the players increase and as a result, the speed of the game also increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">In this care, you don't play but your presence and encouragement have accelerated the speed of the game.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Here you have also acted as a catalyst.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Test the properties of oxygen with the gas which you have collected in 5/6 test tubes following any process that have described above.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Take a test tube filled with the gas and observe closely.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">What do you see ?</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The gas does not show any colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">That means, it can be mentioned that oxygen is a colourless gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Take off the cork of a test tube and take the smell of the gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Have you got any smell?</sent>
				<sent id ="78">No smell has been got.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Oxygen is an odourless gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Take of the cork of another test tube and check its taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Have you got any taste of it ?</sent>
				<sent id ="82">There is no taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Oxygen is a tasteless gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Through downwards displacement of water this gas has collected.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Oxygen gas is lighter than water and slightly soluble in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">For this reason, almost the whole gas comes up as bubbles and stored in the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Oxygen get dissolve in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">With this oxygen, aquatic plants and animals maintain their breathe.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Fish and other aquatic animals breathe with oxygen through their gills.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Lid a lighted candle with a glass jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">After a little while the candle will be quenched.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The candle was inflamed as long as oxygen exists in the air of the jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Lastly after in flaming when total oxygen will be finished the candle will be quenched.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Put off an inflamed jute stick by a whiff.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Put the jute stick into a gas jar filled with oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">What have you seen?</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The jute stick has inflamed again.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">So, it can be said that oxygen helps combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Take a piece of glowing coal in a spoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Put it into a oxygen filled gas jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">What do you see ?</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The coal has inflamed again.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">That means oxygen supports combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Hold an inflamed jute stick or match stick in the mouth of a gas filled test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">You will see that, the stick is inflaming more luminously.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">But the gas inside the tube is not burning.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">From this experiment, it can be realized that oxygen itself does not burn but it helps combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Take an oxygen filled test tube and hold it invertedly over a air filled test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">After a short time, put a light inflamed stick into the second test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The light inflamed stick inflamed more luminously again.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Therefore, it can be said that oxygen is slightly heavier than air.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Oxygen in combustion Oxygen helps in combustion.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Oxygen itself does not burn.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">But without oxygen it is not possible to make fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In class six, we have seen through experiment that an inflamed candle slowly went out when it was covered with a glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">In fact, the process of combustion is nothing except addition of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">During combustion of wood or coal, huge quantity of oxygen is added and produce enormous amount of heat and light.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Oxygen is a very active element.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It combines with metals such as iron, copper, sodium, magnesium etc. and forms metallic oxides.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">These metallic oxides are generally basic.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Similarly, oxygen combines with non-metals such as, carbon, nitrogen, sulphur, phosphorus etc. and forms non-metallic oxides.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Generally nonmetallic oxides are acidic.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Combustion of non-metals with oxygen Wood, coal, kerosene, candle, etc. are all compounds of nonmetals.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">At the time of inflaming, molecules of these compounds combine with oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">This addition evolves in the form of heat and light.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The inflammable substances like candle, coal, wood, kerosene contains carbon which combines with oxygen to form carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">On a combustion spoon take a inflaming candle.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Insert it into a oxygen filled gas jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">What do you see ?</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The candle is inflaming more luminously.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">After inflaming a short time, bring out the combustion spoon with the candle and then shut the mouth of the jar with a glass lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Now drop a piece of blue litmus paper soaked in water into the gas jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Is there any change of colour of the litmus paper ?</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The paper appears slightly red.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">A property of an acid is that it changes the colour of a blue litmus into red.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Therefore, we can say the combustion of a candle in an oxygen filled gas jar produces such type of substance that is acidic.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Now in that jar pour a small quantity of clear lime water and shake it.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Do you find any change ?</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The clear lime water becomes milky.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">As a result of combustion, carbon of the candle combines with oxygen and produces carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">You know that carbon dioxide turns clear lime water into milky.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">We can express this through the following way.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">In the science laboratory of your school there must be sulphur powder available.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Take a small quantity of sulphur powder in a combustion spoon and set fire to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Now insert the combustion spoon into a oxygen filled gas jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">What have you seen ?</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Sulphur is inflaming with a bluish flame.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">After combustion, drop a blue litmus paper soaked in water into the jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Is there any change of the blue litmus paper?</sent>
				<sent id ="150">During combustion of sulphur in oxygen, sulphur combines with oxygen and form sulphur dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Sulphur dioxide is acidic.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Acid turns blue litmus to red.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">That's why blue litmus becomes red.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Metals like- iron, copper, sodium, etc. combines with produces metallic oxides when they are burn in oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Take a piece of magnesium ribbon with the help of a crucible tongue and set it on fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Now insert it in a oxygen filled gas jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">After combustion drop a piece of wet red-litmus paper inside the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Is there any change of colour of the litmus paper ?</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Yes, the red colour of the litmus paper turns into blue.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">That means, magnesium oxide produced from the combustion of magnesium in oxygen is basic.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Oxygen is indispensable for respiration of man and other animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">If there was no oxygen in the air, human beings and other animals could not live.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">For weak lungs, particularly pure oxygen is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In hospitals when the dying patients can not breathe from air than pure oxygen is supplied through their nose.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The patients of asthmatic troubles are some times kept under oxygen tent.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The mountain riders, the astronauts, the aeroplane pilots, the drivers and the crew of submarine use small and portable oxygen cylinders for breathing.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Miners who work deep into the ground for extracting minerals also carry oxygen cylinders and they use it of the time of their requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Fire fighters also use oxygen masks.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Besides combustion and respiration oxygen is used for differrent purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Oxygen is used for various welding works.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Perhaps you might have seen the welder working in factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Welders join together two pieces of metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">For this they have to melt down the metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">To do this work, a very hot flame is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">In order to make such type of very high temperature flame.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Oxygen is burnt with another gas like hydrogen or acetylene.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The flame produced from a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen is called oxyhydrogen flame.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Temperature of this flame is about 2800?</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The flame produced from a mixture of oxygen and acetylene is called oxyacetylene flame.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The heat of oxy-hydrogen or oxy-acetylene flame is well enough for melting, cutting and welding metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">In rocket and jet planes liquified oxygen is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Besides this, oxygen makes our drinking water taste and kills various germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">We know that, there are oxygen and water-vapour in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">This layer is known as rust.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Oxygen of the air comes in contact of iron and make one kind of iron-oxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">This is rust.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">We have seen earlier that oxygen reacts with metals to form metallic oxides.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Iron is a metal.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">This metal reacts with oxygen in presence of water or water-vapour to produce iron-oxides.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">So, oxygen plays the principal role in the process of rusting on iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">In the process of rusting on iron, the role of oxygen and water or watervapour can be proved by performing the following experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Keep four iron wires one in each of the four test tubes.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Marked them as A, B, C and D and put them as shown in figure below.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">A open and empty test tube ( in fact full of air).</sent>
				<sent id ="195">B open and half or partly water filled test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The wire is submerged one-half in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">C Take a test tube filled with water boiled for 20 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The mouth of the tube is closed with a cork.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The cork is sealed tightly with wax so that air can't enter.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The wire is fully immersed.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">D Open the test tube filled with kerosene.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The wire fully immersed into kerosene.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Keep them in this way form a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">After that observed the wires, which one has rusted?</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Which one hasn't?</sent>
				<sent id ="206">In test tube A, there was air that means oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">And a very small quantity of water vapour.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">In test tube B, there were both air or oxygen and water too.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">So, the wire of test tube B got rust with in one week.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Test tube C was air tight.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">That means there was no oxygen at all but water was there.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The wire kept in it couldn't get rusted.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The wire of test tube D was immersed under kerosene.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Here neither oxygen nor water was present.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">So, the wire kept in it couldn't get rust too.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">From this experiment we have learnt that for the formation of rust on iron both water and oxygen are necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Rust is an oxide of iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Iron turns into iron oxide when it gets rust.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Rust is deposited on metal surface like a layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">When the metal is uncovered by removing the rust, it rust again.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">In this way, the whole metal gradually turns into rust.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Needle, pin, clock-spring, corrugated iron sheet, agricultural equipments, container or tin, etc. must get rusted if preventive measure is not taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Such type of coating is made with paints, enameling materials, grease or molten metals (like coating of zinc or tin).</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The coating of molten zinc or tin is called galvanizing.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The corrugated iron (C.I) sheets that are used to make our houses are galvanized with zinc.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Milk powder cans are galvanized with tin.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">This mixture or alloy is called stainless steel.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
