<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>7-sci-22</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.096</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">171</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2399</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">787</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t67">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Bangladesh is a very densely populated country.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The country's population is continuously increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The rapid increase in the population is giving rise to many problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">In around 1941, the population of Bangladesh was more than 4 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">In around 1981, the population became 9 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">One of the bad sides of rapid population growth is environment pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">For various reasons the environment becomes harmful for survival and unfavourable for habitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Such an environment is called polluted environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">And the process by which environment is spoiled is called environment pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The three major components of environment are air, water and soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The reasons and effect of pollution of these components are discussed here.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">We all known that polluted air spread different types of disease causing microbes.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">This air is polluted in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The reasons for air pollution are related to the increase in population in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Wherever in urban or rural area, too many houses if built in a limited area, increases the population density of that area.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Currently, many unplanned slums have developed in the urban areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">As a result, the waste and excreta collect there, rot and spread foul smell and different types of poisonous gases are released.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">These gases pollute the air and produce many disease producing organisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">To provide livelihood for the increasing population and for the development of the country, new industries are set up.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Electricity generation plants have to be set up to run the industries and also to provide comfort for the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">For transportation, the number of motorised vehicles has to be increased too.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide gases are released with the smoke from industries and vehicles.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">These poisonous gases also pollute the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">These gases are very harmful for health.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Some vehicles release a lot of smoke.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">This black smoke contains half burned carbon and other poisonous gases.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Black smoke is produced from vehicles that are not maintained properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Smoke is also produced from the burning of fuel in brick-fields, cooking oven and by burning of old tyre and dried herbs and shrubs.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">So far so, the smoke from tobacco, biri and cigarette also pollute the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">You know that oxygen is needed for our survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">It is possible to get more oxygen from clean air.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">In order to keep the atmosphere clean and free from pollutants, besides other measures, it is necessary to keep the population limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">If it is possible to control the population growth, it is possible to limit the causes of air pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Water has multitude of use in the daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">We use water for drinking, washing and mopping.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Plenty of water is needed in the factories to produce different items.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Where do we get this water?</sent>
				<sent id ="38">We get water from different sources as rain, spring, river, canals, lake, beel, doba, pond and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">In the rural areas, people collect water from such water sources.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">For drinking water, in some villages there are dug-well, draw-well and tube-well.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">But relative to the population, the source of pure drinking water is not sufficient.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">In the urban areas, the main source of water is tap.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The city authority collects water from rivers or from underground water.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The water so collected is purified and supplied through pipes.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">In urban or rural areas as the population increases the demand for water also increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">So in order to remove scarcity of water the population in the area has to be kept limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Increased population requires increased amount of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Irrigation and chemical fertilizer have to be used to increase the production of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">To control insects in the crop field different insecticides are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">As a result, fish and other aquatic animals die.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Again, when the content of fertiliser increases in the pond and doba, there is increased growth of algae and other aquatic plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">When these plants die and rot in the pond water, then the oxygen in the water is exhausted.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">As a result, fish die and the water becomes foul smelling and polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Water is also polluted when bamboo, cane and jute are soaked in it and when cow, buffalo, goat are bathed in the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">When food scrap and rubbish, carcass of animal, perishable household trash and so on rot then various types of disease causing microbes are formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">These rubbish and disease causing microbes are transported by rain water, wind and other animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">In the end, in some way or other these may pollute the river, canal, doba, pond, beel, draw- well and tap water.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Drinking of such contaminated water by human cause cholera, diarrhoea, dysentery, typhoid and other diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">When population increases, the waste production also increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">In the absence of proper disposal system, the waste accumulates, rots and pollutes water.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Especially in urban areas, water is polluted if there is any interruption in the sewerage system.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Under such circumstance, it becomes difficult to supply pure drinking water in urban areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Population Growth and Environment at Environmental Pollution 205 Disposal of excreta near water bodies, wells and tube-wells may pollute water.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The dirty water from outside may seep into the wells and pollute the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Excreta of animals and garbage may fall in the well and pollute the water too.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It has been mentioned earlier that industries have to be set up to provide employment for the increasing population and for development.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The wastes form these industries pollute pond, rivers, canals and other water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">In the country, different industries like textile, jute, paper, chemical, fertilizer, leather and tannery are usually situated beside the rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Wastes from these industries pollute the river water.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">This polluted water may be the cause of our death.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">So, it is extremely essential for us to keep the water pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">To a great extent, human beings are responsible for pollution of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">If population increases, the chances of water pollution increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">So, if the population can be kept within limits, it may be possible to keep the water pure and free of filth.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Usually, all the reasons that pollute water may also pollute the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The nature of soil is such that with the help of bacteria it can decompose the wastes and mix it with soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">But when the production of rubbish and waste exceed the soil's capacity to handle it, the organic waste and acid released make the soil acidic.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">These days, polythene bags and plastic goods are being increasingly used in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">These are made of chemical products that do not rot in the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">As a result, pollution of soil may lead to loss of its fertility.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Excessive use of fertilizer and insecticide are the major reasons for soil pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">We are especially dependent on plants and crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">If soil is polluted, the trees do not grow well, crops production is hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">So, it is earnestly necessary for us to keep the soil free from pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Air, water and soil of the environment are essential for our survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">It is the responsibility of every one of us to appropriately preserve and keep pollution free these valuable resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The following steps must be taken to reduce pollution of environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Ignorance about pollution and lack of responsibility are the main reasons behind environment pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">So, the people need to be educated and made aware of the importance of keeping the population limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Open-air defecation here and there should be avoided and sanitary latrine used.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Household waste and food scraps should not be strewn but collected and sanitary disposal of the same arranged by burying.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The industries should be planned in such a way that environment pollution is minimum.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Before the smoke from industries is released in air, it has to be made pollution free by chemical process using modern technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Laws concerning air pollution have to be appropriately implemented.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Instead of polythene, the use of jute products have to be increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Chemical fertilizer and insecticide are to be used appropriately and adequately.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Smoking has to be stopped and people made aware against smoking.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Above all, people need to be made aware about keeping the population limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Dense Population and Unhygienic Environment In our country there are no big cities like those in developed countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Except for Dhaka, Chittagong, Rajshahi, Khulna and Narayanganj, the other cities are not so big yet.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Because of the increase in population, these days there is scarcity of opportunity of livelihood and living in rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Many people are converging in these cities in search of work.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">As a result, the problem of accommodation in cities is getting acute by the day.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Because of scarcity of accommodation, people are making houses here and there in unplanned way.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">As a result, dirty slums are growing in every nook and corner of the city.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">People live close together in these slums.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The necessary air and light can not enter these houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The water supply and sewerage system is almost non- existent is these slums.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">So, people dispose waste and excreta here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Because of the mismanaged waste disposal system, the rubbish and excreta ctfllect in places and rot.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Monsoon water, wind and animals carry this rotten rubbish in various ways such that they mix with water to pollute it.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Due to use of this polluted water, the slum people are afflicted with various water-borne diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Especially, providing employment is a great problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The curse of unemployment makes the youth disappointed and unsettled.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Only healthy, sound and educated .population</sent>
				<sent id ="116">can contribute significantly to the development of a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Due to excess population compared to scarce resource, it is not being possible to adopt effective measures to provide these opportunities in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Everybody has to be aware of the fact that population should not grow in unplanned way.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Lots of problems arise if in a country the population increases without corresponding increase in resource.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">In order to understand these problems of population and to take corrective measures, we must know well about the population in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">We need to gain knowledge so as to know what is demography?</sent>
				<sent id ="122">what are the reasons for increasing population and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Some common topics of demography are given below in simple language.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The population increase in any country depends on three factors-birth rate, death rate and migration.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">To clearly understand the information and problems related to population, we need to have an understanding of demography.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Scope of demography is the review and analyses of population structure, density, birth rate, death rate and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The birth of a baby implies increase in population and on the other hand death of a person implies population decrease.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">But if the number of death is less than the number of birth, then the population of the place will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">This increase or decrease of population depends on two other factors too.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">These are immigration and emigration.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The population of a country decreases due to emigration.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Again, due to people coming into the country the population increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">In our country, the usual reason of population increase is the difference between birth rate and death rate.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Crude birth rate: The crude birth rate of a country is the number of live births per 1000 population of the country in that year.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Example: Let us consider that in one year in a village 96 babies were born alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The mid-year population in that village was What is the crude birth rate for that village?</sent>
				<sent id ="137">When crude death rate is subtracted from crude birth rate, the net residue will give the natural growth rate of the population.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">This increase is usually expressed as the population's annual growth in percentage.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">So, in order to express this in percentage, the rate has to be divided by 10.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Generally, children less than 15 years cannot earn.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Children of this age are considered dependent on others.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">People between 15-64 are considered as productive workforce.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Children under 15 and adults above 64 years are considered dependent on the workforce.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The following formula can be used to calculate the dependency ratio of a country or region.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Example: In a country, children below 15 years are 43 percent of the total population and adults above 64 years are 3 percent.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">What is the dependency ratio of the country?</sent>
				<sent id ="147">This is expressed in percentage to avoid the fraction.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">After a child is born, we cannot say how long the child will live or what will be the child's life span.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">But we can make an expectation of the child's life span.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">This average number of years survived is the life expectancy for the people at that time in that country.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This life expectancy fluctuates.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Life expectancy increases with improved standard of living.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">And keeping the population within limits is the prerequisite for improved standard of living in a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Environmental pollution: We live in an environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Release of any unwanted or harmful thing into the environment pollutes it.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The process by which we harm the environment is environment pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">In order to meet the demands of the increasing population, air pollution is increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Water pollution: Because of increasing population increased amount of food production is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">So land has to be irrigated and fertilizer and insecticides and so on have to be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The use of these is the important reason for water pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Throwing of dirt, rubbish, carcass, and so on in water also causes water pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Soil pollution: Soil pollution occurs due to the same reasons as water pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Throwing of excess rubbish, waste product, polythene and plastic products and use of excess fertiliser and insecticide are the important causes of soil pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Unhygienic environment: Because of the rapid increase in population, people make houses here and there in unplanned way and dirty slums crop up.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">People live close together in these places.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">These slums do not get the necessary air and light; water supply and sewerage systems are absent.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Such an environment is called unhygienic environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Demography: The subject that deals with population structure, density, birth rate, death rate and so on is commonly called demography.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Crude birth rate: The crude birth rate of a country is the number of live births per 1000 population of the country in that year.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Natural growth rate: When crude death rate is subtracted from crude birth rate, the net residue will give the natural growth rate of the population.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">This average number of years survived is the life expectancy for the people at that time in that country .</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
