<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-agri-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.737</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">208</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2657</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">812</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t86">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Embroidery is a special skill of arts and crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Mean while you may have made many beautiful pictures with needle and thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Your mother, elder sister, grandmother may have made a few embroideries.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The embroidered quilt is considered to be a village women's special craft.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">This craft has been done since ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The various pictures of miles of tales of village people's imaginations, happinesses and sorrow can be revealed in these embroidered quilt and fans.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Flowers, creepers and herbs can be seen embroidered on Jainamaz through embroidery.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Various paintings are being done through embroidery now-a-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Farming these pictures are kept as decorations in houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">These add to the beauty of a house.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">These crafts of our country are being exported all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Through this, huge foreign currency is being earned.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Besides these, a person should know how to embroider for their own necessity.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">So you can easily realize how Important the learning of embroideries.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">You have learnt a few works about the needle and thread before this.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">You will be able to learn a few new stitches with the experiences which you have earned already in previous classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The field of creating arts and crafts with needle and thread is very wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Here, a few preliminary things are discussed.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">This stitch is like a cross or multiplication sign, generally, the net or selula clothes are used for this stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The surface of the selula-cloth is marked with squares.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">This stitch can be done nicely on the jute fabric too.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The women of different areas of Rajshahi District and Chapai Nababgonj make the embroidered quilts with this stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">ou will be able to sew stitches looking at the diagram which is given.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Generally this stitch is done on the checked fabrics.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The designs look beautiful on the tray-clothes, table-clothes and the babies dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Except these, if you use this stitches for painting tapestry you can bring the diversity of the paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">After cuttings the button hole of the dresses threads come out, that's why thus stitch is needed to bind the edges of the button hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The special stitch by which stitch this work is done is called the button hole stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">This stitch is placed closely one after one.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Now let us begin a button hole stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Make running stitches around a line or on the edges of the design.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Continue in the same way, you will find the loops are placed together one after one in a line.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">You will be able to make nice designs on your dresses table-clothes, bed- sheets.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Kamiz dupatta etc. with this stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">This stitch is used to trim the edges of` showls, blankets etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The blanket stitch is very easy to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It is mostly like the button hole stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">This stitches can be used in different work.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Stain stitch is very easy to sew.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Hope you will be able to make following at the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">It is done very closely side by side.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">This stitch is worked on a design with a filling or padding so that it stands distinctly.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The stitches can follow a straight or diagonal direction but they have to be placed closely together to create a satiny look.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Bring the needle up to the surface in the left hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">(A) Carry the thread across the design inserting the needle in the right-hand line.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">(B) slide the needle under the material (fabric) latting it emerge on the left-hand side and just below (A).</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Continue to make stitches this way until design area is covered.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Be careful, to keep the edges of the design even and well defined.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Stain stitch is used to fill the patels of flowerless small flowers, birds, animals and other designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">This stitch is almost like the cross stitch only care should be taken to keep the stitches even.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Looking at the picture you will be able to make the stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">It is used on the dresses mainly in the embroidered quilts in the border of saries and for shadow embroidery.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">This stitch is done by twisting thread around the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">It is used for making the roses creepers and herb etc. quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Put a knot at the end of the thread inserting thread into the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Bring out the needle up from underneath the cloth (from the end of the design).</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Then twist the thread around the needles as many times as necessary for covering the space to be trimmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">To finished off, bring the point of the needle back to where it was first inserted.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Do this way as many times as you need according to your design.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">This stitch is Bullion stitch and a design done with bullion stitches very nice and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The beautiful designs can be made on different dresses, table-cloth, handkerchief etc..</sent>
				<sent id ="62">This stitch can be used to bring diversity in paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">There are different methods of drawing or transforming the designs on the fabrics Free-hand drawing.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">By using a carbon paper between the drawing and then draw it with a pencil.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The design will be imprinted on the fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">However, there is another method by which a design can be drawn before sewing.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">At first select which design you want to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Now imprint by tracing the design on oil-paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Then make -the small holes very closely on the lines of the design with a thick needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">After making holes the design will look like dated- design.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Now have a pot of enamel or pocalin and put some kerosin and blue (Robin blue or any other blue).</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Mix them well.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Keep your fabric on a plane place.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Dipping the cotton in the mixed blue squeeze it lightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Now rub it with that cotton over the line of the designed oil paper lightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Don't move your designed oil paper immediately after rubling the design with the cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">After sometimes take out the pins of four corners and take off the oil paper from the fabric carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">You will find that your design has been drawn on the fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Then sew the design with the stitches as you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">You have learnt various kinds of stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Try to sew an embroidered quilt with different stitches or make an embroidered quilt with cross stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Any design can be enlarged.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Make a graph on the design drawing equal lines oblong and verticle way at first.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Then make a bigger lined graph on another paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Now copy the design on the big graph-paper looking at the original design.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Look the design has become big.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">You may make a design smaller in size with the same procedure.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Materials : A piece of 70 c.m. long, and 30 c.m. wide jute-fabric.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">A piece of 60 c.m. long and 10 c.m. wide jute-fabric for the riban.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Take coloured and white yarn and a needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Collecting the materials sew the design with cross stitches which is given in the book or any design as you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Sew the ribbon of the bag with cross stitches also.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Then put lining and join two sides and join flic ribbon on two sides of the bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Dresses can be made by knitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">It is another means of earning.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">T shirts, socks, cardigans etc. can be made by machine as well as with knitting needles or crochet hooks by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Here only the processes of hand-made knitted material with knitting needles have been discussed.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Cast on the required number of stitch as holding the needle as the same way as knitting with two needles.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Insert the point of the needle in the right hand into the first stitch on the left-hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Begin to knit.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Hold your yarn away, so that it may pass easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">When working with a circle needle the stitches are always made in the same direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">This is a term indicating that a stitch is to be passed from the left-hand needle to the right hand needle without knitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Usually it is done when a nice-showy dress is to be knitted.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">This knitting's term means 'picked'.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">If the edges of dresses are done following this procedure, then they look very nice and stiff.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">This process is used widely.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Then transfer the stitch without knitting or purling it.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Keep the yarn in back of the-work.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Then transfer the stitch without knitting or purling it.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">There are many processes increase stitches in knitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Then slip the old one off the left hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Look there are two loops on the right hand, needle in stead of one.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">A loop may be increased by increasing on the former line as the above said one.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">A hole has to be made to fix button, ribbon etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">This process is needed to increase a loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">When the next line will be knitted, there will be a hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Loops can be Decreased in Two Way Two stitches are knitted together from the ends of the needles to make the shape of a dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Slip on loop from the left-hand needle to the right hand one without knitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Then knit the next loop heaving the slipped loop over the knitted one and off the top of the right hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">You will find that a stitch has been decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Knit two loops together at the end of the full knitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Then insert left-hand needle into the first loop of the right-hand needle, then pass this loop over the second loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Now only one loop will remain on the right hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Then knit another loop and do the same process as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Continue this until there remains only loop on the right-hand needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Now bring the last remaining it out through the loop by pulling the yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Sew this yarn in the dress nicely with a needle (Look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Two pieces of work can be joined in this process with a sewing needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">But grafting is the best to join smoothly.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The process of joining is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Two pieces of work, with same number of stitches, that have to be joined can be bound off together.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Hold the two parts together with the left-hand each part is on its needle and the right sides are together.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The points of the needle are together.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">You can see only one loop on your third needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Then knit again two together and do the same as first one.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Continue this way until there is only one loop left on your third needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Finish it in the regular process.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">If two parts can be joined like this, then it will be no visible sign.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">This process is more expectable than the others.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Take the same number of stitches in two knitting needles.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Hold two parts of right sides of the knittings.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Keep a few c.m. yarn with the knitted part and put on this yarn into a sewing - blank needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Lay the pieces flat on a table so that the loops are opposite each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Except for the first and last stitch in a row, the needle enters each loop twice.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Be sure to keep the tension between the new grafted stitches and the other stitches even, sew the last one well with the needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Usually it is used to join the heels of socks or for joining a border to a dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Hold a part of a dress and pass a knitting needle (or a crocket hook) through the loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Then twisting yarn, knit a loop and drop the loop over the second one, continue in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">In the middle of knitting it may be needed to join the yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Yarn should always be joined in such a way as to produce a strong joining.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Split the edges of both old and new yarn and tear one part of the both applied yarns.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Now join both remaining parts from the opposite side and slit very lightly and knit in the joined yarn from first 6 to 8 loop.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Then you can do your knitting with new yarn freely.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The preliminary matters of knitting has been discussed up to this.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Now let us start knitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Before knitting dresses, you should know a few patterns to make them attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">There are various nice designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It is not possible to discuss about all, except the primary patterns in this limited curriculum.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The same loop has to be repeated is needed several times in any knitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">It is not possible to continue the same thing repeatedly for one thing; there will be a big book if it is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">So there is no way except using the signs.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">A star and brackets are used as signs here.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">It should be understood to be repeated, if there indicates one star mark at the begining one star mark at the end.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">It means that whatever is in the middle of the stars is to be repeated again until there is not mentioned another thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Let us to begin the knitting even a smooth knitting may be considered a pattern.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Except this one rib and two ribs patterns are given here.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Start with the necessary loops on the required pair of loops.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Row-knit one purl one.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Repeat this way up to the end.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Knit the part which is knitted and purl which is purled.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The :required length can be attained by repeating.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">To obtain two ribbed effect, begin by knitting the required number of loops to be divided by four, then make a row of loops.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Knit the next row alternatively 2 knit and 2 purl frequently.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">In making the next row, the loops that were knitted in the first row will be purled, and that- were purled, will be knitted.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Continue this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">There will be two ribbed effect on both of the sides of the completed work.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Cast on odd-number of stitches according to your necessity.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">1st row-1 knit purl.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">repeat until there is only I stitch on the needle and knit this last 1 stitch.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Do like this all rows as long as you need.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Now you have to know about the process a few secondary dresses how to make.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Let us learn about the processes of a few dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">It is put at the edges of a shawl or mufflar to make them more attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Cut the wool about 15 or 20 c.m. length.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Then take three or four pieces of wool fold it in the middle putting in a hair clip or a hook.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Place the hook in the border .prepared to receive the fringe.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The hook is passed through edge of the mufflar or a shawl and make a knot.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Continue this way in an even distances.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">When all the knot are made even the edges of the fringe.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Pompon (A flower with Yarn or wool) The pompon looks like a kadam, it may be big or small.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">This flower develops the beauty if it is fixed to ribons of children's socks, on the top of a cap, cardigans or any other dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">It is very easy to make.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Then cut in the opposite of the wrapped yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Spread the wool with a scissors.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Sew this in the socks or a dress with the extra binding-wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The knitting has to be learnt to make a few woolen dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Let us knit a few dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Processes : Knit a muffler with one or two ribbed pattern or mass pattern upto to your measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Cast on 150 stitches for one ribbed pattern, 152 for two ribbed and 151 for mass-pattern.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Now knit on this 10 stitches 18 rows, then tear off the yarn.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">In another needle take another 5 stitches and cast on 11 stitches from the long part and remaining 12 stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">There will the 56 stitches in all.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Now knit 5-8 rows slipping I stitch at the beginning of every row.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Then bind off the stitches two pieces together.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Knit another sock like this one.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Make flowers like balls in two ends of the rope it will look beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Iron the socks putting a wet cloth on it.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
