<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-agri-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.425</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">823</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">11547</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2194</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t79">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The process by which new plants are produced from branches, roots, nodes, buds, etc. instead of a true seed is called vegetative propagation.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The vegetative propagations of plants are of two types.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The process by which seedling are normally produced from rhizome, stem roots, etc. known as natural vegetative propagation method.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Some natural methods of vegetative propagation of plants are described below.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Scales or bulb : The stems of onion and garlic are known as scale tuber or bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Onion and garlic plant propagate with their bulbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Corm : The stems of kachu or aroid plants are known as corm.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The mukhi kachu plant propagate with its corm.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Rhizome : The stems of ginger and turmeric, etc. are known as rhizome.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The propagation of ginger and turmeric is done by rhizome.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Tuber : The underground stem of potato in known as tuber.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Potato propagates through tuber.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Tuberous Root of sweet potato is an example of modified root.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Sweet potato is cultivated with its tuberous root.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The new plantlets grown at the base of the mother plant, below or above the soil are known as ground plantlets.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Suckers, obsut and ratoons are the examples of ground plantlets.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Suckers : The plantlets grown at the base of banana and pineapple are known as suckers.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Banana and pineapple crop plants are propagated with their suckers.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Obsuts : The runners are developed from the base of aroid plants and water hyacinth.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The front part of such runners gradually grows fully and converts to new plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">These are known as obsuts.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The crops obtained from ratoon are known as ratoon crops or muse crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The patharkuchi plant propagates through its leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">For propagations of sugarcane, croton, mehdi, cactus plants stems are used directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The propagation of citrus lemon, pomegranate, guava, etc. may be done through root cuttings.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Usually, fruits and landscape beautifying plants are artificially propagated.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The different methods of artificial vegetative propagation are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">When a one year old branch is selected and propagation is done, it is called simple layering process.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">In this process, some nodes measuring 3-4 cm. is debarked near the soil and placed under earth for producing roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">When roots are grown, the branch is separated from the mother plant like guti kalam, lemon, rangan, etc. are the examples of simple layering.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The vegetative propagation done by joining a branch of a plant to the stem of another plant of good species is called grafting.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The plant on which the grafting is done is known as stock.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The improved branch selected for grafting is known as scion.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">About 20-30- cm above the ground level, a cut on a one year old land plant is made.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The size of the cut should be 4-6 cm long and the depth would be one third of the girdth of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">A similar cut is also made on the selected scion plant of same size and same dimension.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Within a period of about three months, the stock and scion will get joined.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">This type of graft gets ready for planting in the land after about four weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">he separated graft should be kept in a shady place for few days before it is kept in the nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The detached grafting are of seven types.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Select a strong, disease free branch of a one year old lemon plant near the soil surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Give a round cut for debarking four centimeter area of the selected branch below base nodes.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Put the mixed soil on the cut point.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Then insert the cut portion of the branch in the mixture of cowdung and soil and hold the branch with the help of ?</sent>
				<sent id ="45">shaped stick or put one brick over it.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Within a period of about two months, roots will start growing from the surface of the cut portion of the soil- covered branch.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Cut the branch from the mother plant below the roots with a sharp knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Then plant this layer to your selected place.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Note the working procedure in your practical note book and record the following information.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Collect one mango seedling plant of one year old grown in a tub.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">This plant will serve the purpose of the stock plant in the experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Debark four cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">area of the stock plant keeping 25 centimeter above the ground level of the seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The cut should be done to a depth of one third of the base girdth of the stock plant having a little soft wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Select a branch from the mother plant as a scion of the same age and size.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Debark the base of the scion to a depth of one third of the girdth similarly.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Then tie the stock and scion plant together with a polyethylene tape very tightly without creating any vacuum.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Hang the tub binding it with a branch of a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">You will see that the stock and the scion will be joined together in a period of three months.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Separate the branch of the mother plant gradually by cutting in three steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Keep the separated joined graft in a shady place for few days.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Then cut the shoot of the seedling and keep it in a nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Plant this graft in a selected site or pit after about four months.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Collect a stock plant of wild rose.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Remove the wood portion of the collected bud keeping the bud intact.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Now select one elongated node 15 cm above the ground level of the stock plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Prune some of the leaves, branches, twigs and spines of the stock plant by a scissor.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Now cut a portion of about one cm of the bark in a crosswise manner with the knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Then give another lengthwise cut from the mid place of the first cut to downwards of about three cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Set the bud along with the bark of the mother plant in the gap created within the bark and wood of the stock plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Now keeping the mouth of the bud open bind it with the stock plant tightly with polyethylene tape.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">New leaves and twigs will come out within 2-3 weeks after the completion the budding and the joining of the scion and the stock.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Title of the Experiment : Patch Eye Budding in Jujubi plum Tree Materials .</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Select one unimproved jujubi tree (stock tree.)</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Select another improved jujubi tree ( scion) Cut all the branches of the improved jujubi tree keeping about two meters above the ground level.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">New shoots and bud will come out after 3-4 weeks of the pruning of the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Wait until the new growth attains a size of 30 cm long.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Then cut the bark of the stock plant with a size of two cm long and one cm wide with the sharp knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Collect a newly grown bud along with bark from the improved scion plant of the same size.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The newly grafted bud will start growing after about 8-10 days of grafting.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Then cut the shoot of the stock plant 2-3 cm above the joint.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">About 40-45 types of mango are cultivated in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The long term fruits include mango, jack fruit, litchi, jujubi, lemon, coconut, wood apple, black berry, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The important short term fruits are papaya, banana, pine apple, water melon, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Most of the fruit growing areas and the total production of fruits in Bangladesh are getting increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">For this it is very important to cultivate fruits with more care and in scientific cultivation methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Mango is the principal fruit of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Mango trees have been growing in the country for about 4000 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Mango is called the `King of Fruits` due to its incomparable taste, flavor and nutrient contents.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The importance of mango in Bangladesh is very high for varied reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">In many areas it is an important cash crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">It has diversified use .Mango may be eaten in both green and ripe condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The taste of green mango is sour acidic.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Squash, nectar, jam, jelly etc. may also be produced from ripe mango.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">On the other hand, the demand for mango is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">To meet up these demands, mango should be cultivated in scientific method.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">There are many varieties of mango outside in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Many people think that the total number of varieties may be more than two hundred.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">However, all varieties are not equally good.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Langra is the most popular variety of mango in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The Langra variety is very sweet with slight acidic sweet taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">It is very juicy, fibreless and has a very attractive flavour.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The skin of Langra variety is thin and the seed is small.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The weight of each mango may be 250-300 grams.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The shape of the mango is like the shape of an egg.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The colour of the ripened mango is slightly yellowish.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Langra is a mid season variety of mango.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Ripe Langra mango is available from late Jaishtha to late Ashar.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Every tree bears large number of fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Specially the plants over 15 years of age produce large number of fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The Langra variety of mango is mostly an alternate bearer.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The seeds of Langra do not produce good seedling or plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">So this variety of mango should be propagated by planting grafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Among all other variety of mango, the Fazli is the largest in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Its is from Maldah district of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The Fazli variety of mango is found to grow in large quantity in the district of Chanpai Nawabgong in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">It is a late variety.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Fruits are found to be matured and ripened in the months of Sraban and Bhadra.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The size of the mango is slightly elongated and large enough.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The weight of each of mango may very between 600- 1100 grams.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The skin of the mango is very thin and the seed is very small and flat.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The fruit is delicious, juicy and fibreless.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The ripe fruit looks greenish.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The tree of this variety is very large and each tree bears fruits in abundance.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">However the tree cannot tolerate stormy wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">This variety should be propagated by planting grafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The Gopalbhog is one of the superior varieties of mango.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">This mango variety can be grown in all the districts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It is extremely very sweet, good flavored, fibreless and juicy.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The colour mango remains greenish even after it is ripe.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The skin is very thin and the seed is very small.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The average weight of a fully matured mango is about 250 grams.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">It is one of the, early varieties of mango.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The Gopalbhog variety starts repening from the mid-Jaishtha to mid Ashar.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The stalk of Gopalbhog mango is strong enough and so the fruits do not fall down due to stormy wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The yield of the Gopalbhog is high and the fruit bearing by the trees is regular.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">This variety of mango should be propagated through grafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Mango plants may be grown in most of the soils of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">But deep and well drained alluvial soil are more suitable for mango gardening.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Mango seedlings do not grow in saline and alkali soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The selection of appropriate land is necessary for quality mango trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The time for preparing the land for planting mango trees is Baishakh and Jaishtha.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">At first the land should be ploughed and cross ploughed followed by laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">All the weeds from the land should be cleared and the land should be levelled so that water logging does not occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The seedlings should be planted at the beginning or at the later part of the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">After preparation of the land properly, pits with the size of 1m x 1m x 1m should be made at a distance of 10 meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The soils of the upper and lower portions should be kept separate.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Then the pits should be left for at least two weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The quantities of fertilizer for use in each mango pit are as follows.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The suitable time for planting mango tree is at the beginning or end of the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The seedling should be planted by removing some surface soil of the pit centre at the time of planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">After planting the seedling the base of the plant should be slightly raised with soils available around the pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Care should always be given so that base of the seedling is not placed far below the soil surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">A irrigation should be given after the planting the seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Water Irrigation will be needed at an interval of 2-3 days if there is any drought.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Wind stormy may harm the base of the seedlings and holes may be created at the base.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">If water enters through these holes seedling may be spoiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">So to protect the seeding from movement, a strong stick should be placed near the seeding tied to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Clearing out the weed : Care should be taken so that weeds do not grow at the base of the planted seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Weeds are very harmful for young seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">That is why weeds should be uprooted without delay.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Water irrigation : As mango plants are deep rooted, is not always essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">But for lengthy dry season, is essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Under such irrigated water irrigation should be applied in the field at least two twice month.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Irrigation should be stopped once the tree begins flowering.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">But after flowering or once the fruit starts growing irrigation needs to be renowned.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Conservation of soil moisture : Use of straw and water hyacinth at the base of the mango tree helps to conserve soil moisture.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Drainage of excess water : Care should be taken so that these is no water logging at the base of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">In case of excess rainfall, arrangements should be made for drainage so that the excess rain water flow out of the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Pruning flowers : If a newly planted mango tree produces flowers within three years, the flowers should be pruned.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Pruning tree branches : The disarranged cross branches fully under shade should carefully be pruned.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The branches showing sings of diseases and infections should also be carefully pruned.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Application of fertilizer : The application of the quantity of the fertilizers depends mainly on the age of the Plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The following doses of fertilizer may be followed for applying in the mango gardens.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Powdery mildew: The powdery mildew disease of mango is found in all mango cultivating areas of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The disease is found to attack at the time of the inflorescence and fruit setting.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Excess humidity coludy weather and lower temperature help the spread of the powdery mildew disease of mango.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The main characteristic symptoms of the disease is the greyish white powdery spots that are found on the flower and little fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">This causes death of the inflorescence and dropping of the little fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Thus a full destruction of the crop may happen.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">As preventive measure 2gm thiovit should be mixed with 1 litre water and be sprayed before flowering .</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Anthracnose : Anthracnose disease is found to occur under excessive rainfall and high humid condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The leaves, inflorescence and fruits may be attacked by this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The characteristic symptom of this disease is that black spots developed on the infested place.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Then the branches and flowers die, the flowers drop instead of fruiting .</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The disease may be controlled by spraying Bordeaux mixture over the foliage 3-4 time at an interval of 15 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Bordeaux mixture may easily be prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">For preparing Bordeaux mixture 1 litre water 100gm copper sulphate and 100 gm lime are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Lime should be taken in another pot and the rest of the water should be added slowly to make the lime solution cool.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Now the copper sulphate solution and lime solution should be mixed together to form the bordeaux mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Canker : The characteristic symptom of canker disease is the spread of water soaked spots on the leaves and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Later on these spots turn black.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">The diseased fruits are found to produce crack in lengthwise direction and some secretion is found along the cracks.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">As soon as the disease appears bordeaux mixture must be sprayed 3-4 times at 15 days interval.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Insects of Mango : The Mango trees and mango fruits are found to be attacked with about 20-25 different types of insects and pests.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Among these insects mango fruit borer mango fruit fly mango hopper cause serious damages to mango production.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Mango fruit borer : After fruit setting when the mango starts growing the female mango fruit borer lays eggs on the surface of the fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The eggs are covered with a hard black layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Larvae coming out from the eggs then enters making pores through the fruit flesh and starts eating the young flesh of the fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">But the surface of the pores gradually get closed .</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The larvae eats the flesh of the mango internally for about a month.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Then the larvae converts to the pupa stage and remains the same for about two weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Then the pupa gradually transformers to an adult insect and comes out of the mango fruit making pores and tunnels.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The following measures may be taken for preventing mango fruit borer.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Weeds and parasites of the mango gardens should be removed through uprooting and cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Mango fruit fly : Mango fruit fly is very harmful for mango.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The female fly lays about 150- 200 eggs under the skin before of the mango fruit it ripen.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The eggs hatch and produces larvae which enters the flesh of the mango and starts eating the flesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">This causes the mango to rot.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Infestation of the insect cannot be identified.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Mango hoppers may be controlled by spraying ripcord 10 EC one ml or sumicidin 20 EC 0.5 ml.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">diluting it in one litre of water and it may be sprayed at least twice at an interval of 15 days before flowering.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The production of mango gradually increases as the tree grow older.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">A graft mango tree can produce 15-20 mango at the age of five years.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">While 400- 600 mangoes may be produced in such a tree at an age of 10 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The yield of mango increases up to the age of about 40 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The mango should be harvested before it starts to ripen and charge colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">A small net for holding mangoes may be fixed at the apex of a long bamboo and may used in mango harvesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">After harvesting, the mango may be kept in a store house arranged in layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The mango fruits should be packed properly while sending to distant markets.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The mango fruits may be packed separately with soft tissue papers and may be kept in hard paper boxes.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">A batch of 50 mangoes may be packed in a bamboo busket making layers with staw in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Litchi In Bangladesh litchi is a very popular fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">This fruit is superior in taste, flavour and nutrient content.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The origin of its cultivation is the South Eastern region of China.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Litchi plants are grown in almost all the districts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">But good quality litchies are produced in Rajshah, Dinajpur, Jessore, Kushtia, Mymensing, Dhaka and Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Varieties of Litchi There are many varieties of litchi cultivated in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">These varieties are brought from abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The different varieties cultivated in Bangladesh are briefly discussed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Bari litchi I : This is a high yielding type of early variety.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">This variety is oval shape and it is red in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The weight varies from 18-20 grams.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">It is cultivated in the northern part of county.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">China No-3 : This Variety of litchi was collected from China to Bangladesh many years ago..</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Among the varieties of litchi in Bangladesh the China no-3 is the best.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The shape of the fruit is round.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">It is also known as Bedena as its seed is very small.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">This variety of litchi is very sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">China No- 1 : This variety of litchi was also collected from china long ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">This is also a good variety of litchi but a bit inferior to the China no-3 variety.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Bombay litchi : it is a hybrid variety.This variety is very attractive in size and colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">This litchi is slightly acidic intaste.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">This variety of litchi is widely cultivated in Jessore and Kustia.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Mangalbari litchi : This litchi is cultivated in the district of Mymensingh.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">This variety is medium in quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Mujaffarpuri : This is a very good variety.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Its yield is more than other common varieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">All the fruits do not ripen at a time and so the fruit is available for longer period.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Deep silt loamy soils are most suitable for litchi cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">If the drainage facility is available, litchi plants may be grown in other soils too.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">However, sandy soils are not suitable for litchi plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Litchi may be grown well in acidic soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">So acidic and deep silt loamy soils should be selected for litchi plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The land selected for litchi plantation should be deeply ploughed and cross ploughed in the month of Falgun and Chaitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The field should be made free from all weeds and the whole plot should be levelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Arrangements should be made by preparing drains in the field so that rain water can not create water logging.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The optimum time of planting litchi tree is either the onset of rainy season or the end of the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The trees are usually planted in pits made at a distance of 8-10 meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The size of the pit should be 1m 1m 1m.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The soils of upper and lower portions should be kept separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The pit should be kept open for at least two weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">The upper portion soils of the pits should be mixed with the following fertilizer before filling them up.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">The most suitable month for planting litchi seedling is Jaishtha.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">At this time the soil of the pits should be made loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The planting should be done at the center of the pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">It is better to plant healthy and strong guti layers or grafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The base of the plant should be raised by five centimeter from the surrounding.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">With soils from the sides to the base.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">The plant should be tied with a stick so that its base do not move due to does the wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">After that a light irrigation should be given for moistening the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Keeping the garden weed free: The base ground of the litchi plant should be kept free from weeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The plantation area should be deeply spaded at last twice a year and all the weeds should be uprooted.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Irrigation : At least two irrigation should be given to litchi garden when drought, occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Cultivation of Arharca kind of pules in such a garden helps to conserve soil moisture and enrich the soil with nutrient elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">A fertilizer chart, based on the age of the litchi plant to be applied is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The quality of fertilizers should be divided in two parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">One part should be applied at the beginning of rainy season while the rest half should be applied at the end of the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Pruning of Litchi Plant Normally pruning is not so important for litchi plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">But to have a good shape and size of the plant, litchi plant requires pruning up to three years of age.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Side branches should be allowed when the main trunk of the litchi plant grows to a height of two meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">At the time of harvesting litchi fruits from the tree, some parts of tiny branches and leaves are taken along with the fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Such a breaking of twigs also helps in pruning of the plant and this enhances new shoot growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Some times the litchi plant becomes heavily foliaged with new shoot and leaf growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">This reduces the yield of the fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">For sufficient light and air, necessary branches should be pruned.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">As the tree grows older, its production reduces.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">For family consumption or for selling litchi in the nearby market, the litchi should be harvested at full ripening stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">But for selling litchi at distant markets, the fruits should be harvested just when the fruits start getting colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Litchies are usually harvested in bunches.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The bunches are made with 25, 50 or 100 number of fruits per bundle.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">After harvesting, the bunches are packed in bamboo made basket with fruit leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">After this, they are sent to the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">If proper care is taken, a litchi plant can produce fruits up to 100 years of age.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The yield of litchi may vary with its age.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">However, the average yield of a fully matured tree may be 80- 150kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Jack fruit is the national fruit of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">As the original place of jack fruit is Bangladesh, this fruits has been given the status of the National Fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">For its diversified use this limit very much popular among the inhabitants of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">no others fruit in Bangladesh is comparable to this fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">This fruit has much economic importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Some characteristics of jack fruit are briefly mentioned below.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Jack fruit is the largest of all the fruits available in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">This fruit is highly nutritious.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Each component of the fruit can be used properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Many nutritious food items can be prepared from jack fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Green jack fruits and seeds of jack fruit are eaten as very high quality vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Jack fruit can be cultivated in most of the districts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">But the production of jack fruit is high in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Sylhet, Mymensingh, Rangpur, and Jessore districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">The varieties of jack fruit available in Bangladesh have no specific names.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The varieties of jack fruit are different in size, shape, skin, fruitlet (kosh or koa) taste, etc. the tree bear fruits once a year .</sent>
				<sent id ="313">However some of the varieties may produce fruits twice a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">According to the qualities of the fruitlets or koa all the jack fruit may be divided into three groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Hard koa jack fruit variety : The jack fruit which has hard friutlets or koa is known as hard jack fruit variety.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Half Soft Koa Variety: The jack fruit which has fruitlets with soft front portion and hard back portion is known as half soft koa variety.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Soft Koa Jack Fruit Variety : The jack fruit which has very soft fruitlets of very juicy koa is known as soft koa jack fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Usually early maturity variety of jack fruit areof soft koa type and the late maturity jack fruit are found to be hard koa type.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Most of the soil above the flood level are suitable for plantation of jack fruit trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">But the production of jack fruit becomes higher when it is grown in deep well drained soft and loamy soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">The production of jack fruit is also high in acid red soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Jack fruit cannot withstand water logging.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">So deep, well drained silty, loam soils or acid red high land soil etc. should be selected for plantation of jack fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Care should be taken at the time of laddering so that the land becomes nicely levelled according to the topography.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">While making the pits the upper soil and the lower soils of the pits should be kept separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">The pits should be kept open for about two weeks so that the pits get dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">The lower soils should be brought to the surface portion of the pits.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Jack fruit tree may be planted from seedling produced from seeds or from vegetatively prepared grafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">The best time for planting jack fruit seedling is Sraban and Bhadra.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">The seedling should be placed at the centre of the pit making a small hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">If it is frequently irrigated, the soil crust may be formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The soil crust should be broken with a hoe.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">The jack fruit plant cannot tolerate water logging.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">So the base of the seedling should be slightly raised by taking some soils from the sides to the base of the seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">The seedling should tightly be tied with a strong stick , so that it can not move due to wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Giving hedge : The tender leaves of jack fruit trees are very palatable food for cattle and goats.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">So, to protect the jack fruit seedling from cattle and goats a strong hedge should be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Clearing of weeds : The grounds should be heed and weeded at least twice a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">These should be done once before the rainy season and all aim at the end of the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Irrigation : Irrigation of water is required during the drought period.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Irrigation should also be continued before and after flowering and initiation (muchi) stages.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Application of Fertilizer : the following fertilizers may be applied for each jack fruit plant every years.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">pruning and Trimming : The dead branches, and cross branches should be pruned after harvesting of the fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Inter Cropping : Ginger, turmeric, etc. plants may be planted as inter crops under the shade of jack fruit trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Such inter cropping ensures the after care of jack fruit trees and additional crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">The jack fruit tree starts production at the age of 6-7 years from planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The fruits of a jack fruit tree, ripe at different times.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">So, only the matured jack fruits should be harvested time to time.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">The maturity of a jack fruit may be determined by finger bidding .</sent>
				<sent id ="350">A jack fruit usually takes three months to become matured from the time of fruiting or muchi formation.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">It is not wise to allow jack fruits to ripen in the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">A full grown jack fruit tree can produce more than 1000 Kg fruits every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">About 50 types of vegetable of crops are cultivated in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Mainly these vegetables are cultivated in winter and summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Besides, there are many vegetables which are grown through out the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Among the winter vegetables potato, tomato, cabbage, cauliflower, radish, country bean , bottle gourd, sweet gourd, spinach, etc. are important.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">The summer vegetables are mainly ash gourd, bitter gourd, ribbed, palwal gourd, snake gourd, cucumber, lady's finger okra, Indian spinach, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">The vegetables like brinajal, amarainth etc. may cultivated throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The production of vegetables may be increased by applying scientific methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Potato is the principal vegetable of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">In some country potato is the staple food.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">As a staple food, potato stands next to wheat in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">It is possible to reduce food deficit by increasing the production of potato .</sent>
				<sent id ="364">So it is very important to encourage scientific cultivation of potato.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Potato has many indigenous and exotic varities.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Some important varieties of potato are mentioned below.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Country indigenous varieties : Lal pakhri, Shil Bilati, Hagrai, Endurkari.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Just after rainy season, land should be made loose through 4-5 ploughing and cross ploughing followed by laddering at the end of the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Large clods should be broken for the purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">The land should carefully be levelled and irrigation and drainage channels should be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Tubers are mainly used as seed for cultivation of potato in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">The seed rate per hectare of land is 1.5- 2.0 tone and 6-8 kg per decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">The size of each tuber seed should be 28-45 mm.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">If the size of the tuber seed is more than 45 mm. it should be cut into two pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Care should be taken while cutting a tuber so that at least two viable eyes are present in each piece.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">The suitable time for sowing potato tuber seeds is from the middle of Aswin to middle of Agrahayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Potato seeds are sown in line.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">The distance between two lines is 60-70 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">The distance between one tuber to another tuber is 20 cm and the tuber should be placed five cm under the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">The tuber seeds should be kept covered under wet coarse cloth or gunny cloth (chat) for 48 hours before planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Potato absorbs large quantities of nutrient elements from the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">So, sufficient quantities of fertilizer should be applied for higher yield of potato.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">The cowdung should be mixed with be soil at the time of land preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">The triple super phosphate should be applied at the time of final land preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Urea and muriate of potash should be applied in two equal splits.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Clearing weeds : Some weeds may appear in the field when potato plants attain a height of 15 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Weeding should be done in between potato lines carefully .</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Earthing up : The soil between the interline spaces should be given to the base of the potato plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">This earthing up should be completed in 2-3 times, not at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Thus the space between the potato lines take the shape of a channel.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Irrigation : Production of potato needs much water.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Potato fields should be requires adequate supply of waterirrigated at least four times.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">After irrigation hard crusts may be formed and these crusts should be broken through spading or nirani to make the soil loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Control of a pests : The potato crops are prone to be infested by various pests.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">The aphid sucks the plant sap and spreads virus diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Applications of dimecron nuvacron.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">etc. insecticides can control the infestations of these insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Potato diseases : a fungal disease called late blight disease causes harms to potato cultivation .</sent>
				<sent id ="399">The widespread attacks of the crop by this disease may cause complete failure of the crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">The diseases may be controlled through the application of Dithane M-45 or Potato crops may be harvested within 3-4 months after sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">When the colour of potato plant starts yellowing, it means that the time for potato harvesting is up.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">However potato should be harvested when the plant starts drying fully.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Potato should be harvested carefully so that in the tuber potato requires infact and undamaged.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">After harvesting, the potato tubers should be kept in a cool shade for 7-8 days before storing.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Before storing in the godown, or the cold storage infested tubers and other diseased tubers should be discarded .</sent>
				<sent id ="406">The usual yield of potato in our country is on average 10 tons per hectare or about 40 kg per decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">This production of potato is very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">When good varieties of potato are cultivated scientifically , its yield may be raised to 20 tons per hectare or 80 kg per decimal.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Radish and radish leaves are very nutritious vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Radish is widely cultivated in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Radish may be eaten as curry after cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Green radish may be eaten as salad.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Radish is mainly cultivated in the winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Now a days, wherever high land there is radish may also be cultivated in the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">But these are not as tasty as the winter radish.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">There are many varieties of radish.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">Among these the most uncommon are Red Bombay, Tasakisun, Miasige, Minoearly, Pinky, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">These are high yielding and of superior quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Sandy loam soils are most suitable for cultivating radish.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">However, radish may be cultivated in all loamy soil land.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">The lands where green manuring has been done previously should be selected for radish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">The optimum time for radish cultivation is from middle of Bhadra to Ahwin.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">The land should be prepared very carefully for radish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Finer tilth of soil yields if radish.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">For land preparation of radish, it has been mentioned in the book of Khanr Bachan to do 16 ploughing and crops ploughing .</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Application of fertilizers Application of fertilizers in the field is necessary for getting good yield of radish.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">The quantity of fertilizers to be applied for radish cultivation per hectare of land is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">The whole of cowdung, triple super phosphate and half the quantity of muriate of potash should be applied at the time of land preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">If radish is cultivated for leafy vegetable only, its seed rate should be doubled.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">When seeds are broadcast, the sown seed are mixed with the soil through ploughing and cross ploughing followed by alternate laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Then shallow furrows should be made with the help of smaller ploughs.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Thining of Plants : Seeds of radish usually takes 3-4 days to germinate after sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">If the seedlings are found to be thickly,some of the plants should be taken out within a period of 8- 10 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Then a second thining may be done within a period of 20-25 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">More thinning may be done if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Clearing weeds : The weeds grown in the radish field should be uprooted at the time of every thinning process.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Applying irrigation: Sufficient irrigation is required applied for a good in radish crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Dry, hard, and fibrous quality radish are produced when radish field suffers from dryness.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">However, excess irrigation may also cause rottening of the radish plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">After irrigation, the soil crusts, if formed any, should be pulverized and the soil should be kept loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Radish harvesting may be started from the field 3-4 weeks after sowing of seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">The young green radish is sold in the market after washing it with water and cutting the apex of the leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">The production of radish may be 30-35 tons per hectare and 100-120 kg per decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Cauliflower is a winter vegetable crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Though the origin of cauliflower is exotic, it is being cultivated in Bangladesh for many years.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">The cauliflower is mainly cultivated in the sub- urban and other places which are nearer to town.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">The cultivation of cauliflower in rural area is limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">This vegetable is liked by both urban and rural people.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">There are many varieties of cauliflower.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">According to the time of sowing seeds and harvesting crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">These varieties may be classified into three groups, such as early variety , middle variety and late variety.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">The land with free sunshine should be selected for cauliflower cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">The fertile soils of loamy texture is most suitable for cauliflower cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">Cauliflower may also be cultivated applying sufficient organic manure in clay, loamy or sandy loamy soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">The early varieties of cauliflower should be grown in high lands, while for the late varieties low land may be selected for cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">At the end of the rainy season, the land should be prepared by ploughing and cross ploughing several times at the appropriate conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">The land should be prepared giving the soil a fine tilth.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">The land should be completely cleared of weeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Half of the total quantity of cowdung, oil cake and triple super phosphate should be applied at the time of land preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">The rest half of the cowdung, oilcake and triple super phosphate should be applied in the small holes made for planting cauliflower seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">These fertilizers should be well mixed with the soil in the holes.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">The size of the hole or the small pit should be of 20 cm in length 20 cm width and 15 cm depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">One week time should be given for the fertilizers to get well mixed with the pit soil before planting the seedling .</sent>
				<sent id ="464">The urea and muriate of potash fertilizers should be applied in three equal splits.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">The first split should be given after 2-3 weeks of planting seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">The second split should be applied after 20-25 days of first split application.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">and the third split may be applied just before the flowering stage of the cauliflower plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Care must be taken so that fertilizers do not come in direct touch of the tiny leaves or base of the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Seeds of cauliflower may be sown in the months of Bhadra to Kartik.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">Seed beds are required to be made for raising cauliflower seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">A seed bed of 3 meter x 1 meter is required for sowing 12 grams of seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Some quantity of well rotten cowdung and urea should be mixed with the seed bed soil to make it suitable for seedling production.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">Then the seeds should be broadcasted on the surface of the seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">and the surface of the seed bed should slightly be compacted by giving pressure with flat wood piece.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">It should be carefully noticed that the seeds do not enter the soil more than two cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">The seeds normally germinate within 3-4 days after sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">The seed bed should be covered by a shade toprotect it from the direct effects of sunshine and rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">These seedling may be planted in the main field at the age of 4-5 weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">The distance between each row of seedling depends on the characteristic of the varieties selected for cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">The usual distance between the rows for cauliflower is 60 cm and the distance from seedling to seedling within a line is 50 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">Early varieties may be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">A more closer spacing, that is more number of seedlings may be planted per unit of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">The spacing for larger sized cauliflower verities should be increased to 75 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">from line to line.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">Small pits should be made according to measured size and spacing and the seedlings should be planted in those small pits.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">The best time for planting seedlings is the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">After planting light and regular watering should be done up to the 3-4 day of planting in the morning and evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">Loosening of the soil : The soil between two lines should be loosened two weeks after planting of the seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">Weeds should also be uprooted and cleared at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">Applying irrigation water: Four to five days after every split application of the fertilizers, irrigation should be applied to the cauliflower fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">The soil should be loosened when the jo condition appears after irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">Control of insect pests: Cauliflowers are commonly attacked by like pests, flies, aphids, cut worms and butterflies.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">These insect may be controlled by light-trap and getting rid of the clusters of eggs on leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">The best time for the cauliflower to be harvested is when the flower is compact and tight.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">A flower may be harvested after 3-4 month of plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Each yield of cauliflower may be as much as 20 tons per hectare or about 80 kg per decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">Cabbage is a highly nutritious vegetable.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">It is an exotic vegetable.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">Cabbage is mainly cultivated in Bangladesh in the winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">It is being cultivated in this country since a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">Cabbage is a popular vegetable both in the urban and rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">But its cultivation is mostly limited to the sub-urban areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">However, cultivation of cabbage is rapidly expanding in the rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">There are many varieties of cabbage in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">Of these some are early varieties, some are middle varieties and some are late varieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">High land and medium high land with open sunshine should be selected for cabbage cultivation .</sent>
				<sent id ="507">The soil of the land should be loamy and fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">The soil should have the texture of sandy loam if it is cultivated in the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">The land for cultivation of cabbage should be prepared finely and efficiently.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">The land may be deeply cultivated through ploughing and cross ploughing followed by laddering to make the soil loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">The weeds should be cleared during land preparation and the land should be levelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">Application of Fertilizer : The land for cabbage cultivation should be of high fertility.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">The cabbage land may be fertlized with green manures at the beginning of the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">The recommended doses of fertilizer given below may be applied to increase the fertility of the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">Half the quantity of cowdung, oil cake, triple super phosphate should be mixed with the soil during land preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">The rest of the fertilizers should be applied in the pits prepared for planting cabbage seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">The fertilizers should be well mixed with the pits and surrounding soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">The size of the pits should be 20 cm in width and 15 cm in depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">The fertilized pit soils should be allowed to stay for one week before plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">After planting the seedling in the field, the urea and the muriate of potash fertilizers should be applied in three equal splits at different times.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">Planning & Seeding : The cabbage seeds may be sown in the seed bed from the month of Bhadra to Kartik.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">After the soil is made ready for sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">The size of the seed bed should be three meters long and one meter wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">Seed rate for cabbage production is 150-180 grams per hectare of land and 7-9 grams per decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">Some quantities of rotten cowdung and urea may be applied to the seed bed to increase the fertility of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">After sowing seeds, the surface of the seed bed should be compact turned with Help of a flat piece wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">Care should be taken so that the seeds do not go more than 2 cm deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">The seeds will germinate within 3-4days after sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">Arrangement should be made for a shade to protect the tiny seedling from rainfall, storms and other calamities.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">The seedling may be planted in the main field after 4-5 weeks of germination.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">The seedling of cabbage should be transplanted in line.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">The distance between lines should be 60 cm and the distance from seedling to seedling should be 50 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">It cultivated in the rainy season, it can be planted more closely.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">The seedlings are transplanted in the previously made pits with fertilizer pits should be made in the evening .</sent>
				<sent id ="535">The seedling should be regularly watered for 3-4 days and twice, in the morning and evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">Loosening the soils : The space between the lines may be hoed 8-10 days after transplantation of the seedling to loosen the soil loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Simultaneously, weeds should also be uprooted at this time.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Application of fertilizers: The first split of urea and muriate of potash should be applied 15 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">away from the base when the seedlings are at least 15-20 days old.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">The fertilizers should be well mixed with the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">In a similar way, the second split of urea and muriate of potash should be applied 20-25 days after the application of the first split.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">The third split of urea and muriate of potash should be applied 25-30 days after the application of the second split.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">Irrigation : The irrigation need for is very high for cultivation of cabbage.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">The cabbage field should be irrigated at least once a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">After every irrigation, the top curst of soils should be broken or pulverized through spading at joo condition .</sent>
				<sent id ="546">Control of insect pests: The cabbage fields are usually attacked by aphids, beetles, cut worms and butterflies.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">Harvesting of Cabbage: The cabbage may be harvested 3-4 month after transplanting of seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">Cabbage should be harvested when its head becomes tight, compact and heavy.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">Excessively hard cabbage heads frequently gets cracked.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">So cabbage should be harvested before it becomes very hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">Yield of Cabbage : The normal yield of cabbage per hectare is 30-40 tons and 120-160 kg per decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">Kachu or Aroid: Aroid is common and inexpensive a vegetable in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">Every part of aroid plant may be used as vegetable.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">Aroid is also an important vegetable in respect of its high nutrient value.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">No especial is care required for cultivation of aroid.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">However, its yield is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">There are many varieties of aroid crops in Bangladesh .</sent>
				<sent id ="558">Among these varieties are Mukhi Kachu, Panchamukhi Kachu, Pani Kachu, Man Kachu, Dudh Kachu, ol Kachu etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">English names should be provided if possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">The most suitable land goes growing arrived is where excess rain water does not collect.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">The land should be prepared by ploughing and cross ploughing followed by laddering and the soil should be of fine tilth.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">The land should also be levelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">Drainage channels should be made around the plot so that excess rain water may go out of the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">The cowdung and triple super phosphate fertilizers should be applied at the time of land preparation and should be well mixed with the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">The urea and muriate of potash may be applied in two equal splits as foliar application.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">The first split should be applied 30 days after germination of the seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">The corm and the mukhi are used as the seeds for Mukhi Kachu cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">However corm is better as a seed for Mukhi Kachu.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">The seed rate per decimal of land is 5-6 kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">The seed rate depends on the size of the corm and the planting distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">The most suitable time of planting Mukhi Kachu is Chaitra and Baishakh.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">The land should be prepared through ploughing and fertilizer should be applied at the time of land preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">Furrows are made in the land by a plough at a distance of 60 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">The corms are planted in this furrows at a distance of 20 cm and at a depth of 5 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">It is better to plant slightly germinated corms.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">After planting the corms of the Mukhi Kachu, the whole lines should be covered with straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">At this moisture content is conserved and weeds are controlled.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">If there is enough moisture, the germination takes place within 15-20 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">Control of weeds : Weeds in Mukhi Kachu plots may be removed by spading well in between the spaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">Earthing up : Earthing up should be done when the kachu plants attains a height of 30- 45cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">Drainage of water : Mukhi Kachu cannot withstand water logging.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">So excess water should be drained out by channels between two rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">Harvesting of Crops : The best time for harvesting is the end of rainy season when the plants start dying.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Mukhi Kachu should be harvested when all the plants die after maturity.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">Normally, early crop is harvested in the months of Sraban and Bhadra.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">The late crop may be harvested in the months of Kartik and Agrahayon.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">The early harvested crop cannot be stored.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">If the late crops are well dried it can be stored for 4-6 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">When it is cultivated with necessary fertilizers, the production may be as high as 85-100kg per decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">Flower cultivation in Bangladesh is very limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">Amateur people cultivate flowers in tub or household premises to a limited extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">Recently cultivation of flowers likes tube rose, rose, gladiolous and up have been started commercially.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">Varities of Jasmine, gabnharaj, aporajita, shefali, chandramallka (chrysanthemum), etc. flowers grow well in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">It is possible to make a lot of profits by cultivating these flowers commercially.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">Rose is known as the queen of all flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="596">The charming colour and fragrance of the rose easily attract the human heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">Rose is thus loved by all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">The Cultivation of rose is also gradually increasing in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">Besides providing cultivation of rose is contributing to the economic development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">There are enormous varities of rose throughout the world .</sent>
				<sent id ="601">The improved varieties of rose, now cultivated, have been developed through hybridization of mainly two varieties of rose.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">Some varieties have large plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="603">Depending on the condition, the roses may be propagated though stem cutting, simple layering, eye budding and grafting methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">But for development of new varieties, seedlings are produced from rose seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">Fertile loamy soils, having enough organic matter with acidic soil reaction should be selected for cultivation of roses.</sent>
				<sent id ="606">Open place with no shade, free from water- logging and high land is best for rose cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">The selected land should be prepared by, ploughing 4-5 time and cross ploughing follower by laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="608">The soil should be made loose and the land should be levelled.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">The land should also be cleared of weeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">Then the beds will hare be prepared in plot measuring 3 meter x 1 meter in length and width by digging the soil deeply.</sent>
				<sent id ="611">The surface of the rose bed will have to be raised by five cm above the original ground level.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">After preparation of the land, pits measuring 60 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">length, 60 cm width and 45 cm depth should be made at certain distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">The upper soil and the lower soil of the pits should be kept separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">The pits should be prepared 15 days before planting rose grafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">The germs and insect pests will be destroyed under direct sunshine during this period.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">The following fertilizers are for mixing with the upper soil of the pit and should be put into the lower part of the pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">Drains should be made on the land in a planned way so that excess water can not stand anywhere in the plot.</sent>
				<sent id ="619">The month of Aswin is the optimum time for planting rose seedlings or grafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">However, this process may continue up to the month of Poush.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">But in this case the seedling or graft should be planted in a small pit made in the center of the original pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="622">Firstly, the seedling or the graft should be taken from a poly bag or tub or pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">The weak branches, diseased roots, etc. should be pruned off.</sent>
				<sent id ="624">After planting, the base of the seedling or graft should be compacted by hard pressure so that the base become strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="625">A strong stick should be placed along the rose plant which should be tied up with the stick in order to provide support.</sent>
				<sent id ="626">Light irrigation should be given after planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="627">It is better to arrange a shade for the newly planted seedling for 2-3 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="628">Controlling weeds : Weeds are found to grow fast in the rose beds.</sent>
				<sent id ="629">As soon as weeds are seen on the beds these should be cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">Giving frequent irrigation but in small amount during the initiation of flower budding makes the flower bigger in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="631">Draining excess water : There should not be any water logging in the rose beds.</sent>
				<sent id ="632">Rose plants cannot tolerate water logging.</sent>
				<sent id ="633">More flowers of rose are produced from new shoots.</sent>
				<sent id ="634">The old and diseased branches and twigs are required to be regularly pruned.</sent>
				<sent id ="635">Branches of rose plants if pruned every year, helps the plant to attain a beautiful and strong shape and produce big flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="636">Pruning should be done in the months of Aswin and Kartik.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">Fertilizers should be applied at the base of the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">Six to eight weeks after, new shoots begin to grow and large sized flowers are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">Sometimes, after pruning of a rose plant, a large number of flowering buds, twigs emerge from the main stem at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="640">If all these buds are allowed to bloom, flower do not become big.</sent>
				<sent id ="641">Thus the side buds are required to be pruned keeping main buds intact by a sharp knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="642">Rose plants are usually infested by various kind pests, but the red scale and beetles are the most dangerous among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="643">Red scale insects have the appearance of dead skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="644">It's attack is more frequent in the summer and rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="645">The red scale sucks the plant sap from the bark.</sent>
				<sent id ="646">As a result spots are formed on the bark.</sent>
				<sent id ="647">If remedial measures are not taken the rose plant may die.</sent>
				<sent id ="648">If the number of plant are few the red scale insect may be removed simply by brushing the infested place with a tooth brush.</sent>
				<sent id ="649">The insect may also be controlled be applying marathon or diazion .</sent>
				<sent id ="650">Beetles insects are found to attack rose plants at the end of winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="651">The beetles eat the young green leaves and petals of the flowers by boring into the plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="652">It usually attacks at night .</sent>
				<sent id ="653">This may be controlled by light-trap method.</sent>
				<sent id ="654">If the number of rose plants are few beetles may be destroyed locating them with the help of a torch light.</sent>
				<sent id ="655">Application of insecticides, namely malathion or dimecron- 100 at an interval of two weeks may control the insects effectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="656">Rose plants are found to be attacked by a number of diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="657">However, black spot, die back and powdery mildew diseases are the most dangerous among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="658">Black spot Disease : Deep black spots are formed on the old leaves of plant when they are attacked by black spot disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="659">The black spot disease become prominent during the period of Chaitra to Kartik.</sent>
				<sent id ="660">Black spot disease may be controlled by applying Cupravit or Copper Oxychloride at right doses.</sent>
				<sent id ="661">The diseases infested leaves should be pruned and fully burned.</sent>
				<sent id ="662">Die back disease : Sympotms of die back disease attack may be seen on the prune cuts of the branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="663">The rose plant dies from the upper part of the branches when attacked by die back disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="664">For controlling the disease, the pruning knife or pruning scissors should be disinfested by antiseptic lotions before pruning .</sent>
				<sent id ="665">The portions should be washed by rectified spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="666">Powdery mildew disease : powdery mildew is a fungal disease .</sent>
				<sent id ="667">The disease rapidly spreads during foggy weather in the winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="668">As a symptom, whitish powders are found on the surface of the leaves when attacked by this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="669">The rose flower should be harvested from the plant before these fully bloom.</sent>
				<sent id ="670">The flowers should be cut with the help of a sharp scissor keeping a stalk measuring 2o cm in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="671">If the stalk of the flowers after harvest are dipped in clear water and kept in a cool place, the condition of flowers remain fresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="672">Frequent water spray to the flowers is good.</sent>
				<sent id ="673">Tube rose is a perennial sweet flavored flower.</sent>
				<sent id ="674">The colour of the flower is white.</sent>
				<sent id ="675">Tube rose flowers may be single layered or double layered .</sent>
				<sent id ="676">The single layered tube rose is more flavoured.</sent>
				<sent id ="677">It use for decorations in functions and festivals.</sent>
				<sent id ="678">When kept in a flower vase along with long stalk, the flowers remain fresh for several days spreading sweet fragrance.</sent>
				<sent id ="679">The most suitable land for tube rose cultivation is where there is plenty of sunshine and open air.</sent>
				<sent id ="680">Tube roses grow well in loam and sandy loam soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="681">This plant can never withstand water logging.</sent>
				<sent id ="682">So, the land should be well drained.</sent>
				<sent id ="683">The land where tube rose is to be cultivated should be well to make the soil loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="684">The fertilizers recommended below should be applied to the soil per decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="685">Beds are to be prepared for planting tube rose seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="686">The planting should be done keeping 30 cm distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="687">The distance of plant to plant within a line will be 15 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="688">The rhizomes or corms of tube rose (the base of the tube rose plant) should be planted in a pit 4-5cm deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="689">The growth of tube rose is high during the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="690">However, if irrigating water is available and proper practices are ensured it may be cultivated throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="691">For breaking dormancy the corms may be soaked in a 4% Solution of thio-urea for 30 minutes .</sent>
				<sent id ="692">This solution makes the corms more vigorous.</sent>
				<sent id ="693">Controlling weeds : Weeds should not be allowed to grow in tube rose gardens.</sent>
				<sent id ="694">Weeds should be uprooted and cleaned immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="695">Applying irrigation water : Necessary arrangements should be made for regular irrigation to the tube rose beds.</sent>
				<sent id ="696">During the drought season the beds should be irrigated at least once a week.</sent>
				<sent id ="697">Small canals should be prepared for this purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="698">Flowering in tube rose starts 3-4 months after planting the corms.</sent>
				<sent id ="699">The stalk of the flower is usually 15 cm tall and the length of inflorescence along the stalk is 25-40 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="700">The flowers grow in tube like clusters.</sent>
				<sent id ="701">The tube rose sticks are harvested before blooming of the flower buds, by with the help of a sharp knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="702">The flowers remain in vigorous condition for several days if the base of the flower sticks are kept in water .</sent>
				<sent id ="703">Finally, tube rose flowers along with the long sticks should be packed in black polyethylene paper and sent to the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="704">Rangan is one of the important bushy and showy plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="705">These clustered flowers are seen at the apex of the shoots.</sent>
				<sent id ="706">The colours of the flowers may be red, rose, yellow, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="707">This flower blooms throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="708">The flowers start bloom from the end of spring and continue upto Autumn.</sent>
				<sent id ="709">The name of a popular variety of Rangan is coxinia .</sent>
				<sent id ="710">The colour of the coxinia variety is red.</sent>
				<sent id ="711">The rangan plants are usually propagated by stem cutting and guti layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="712">Loamy soils of high lands should be selected for planting rangan grafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="713">The land must be well drained and should be situated under open air and sun shine.</sent>
				<sent id ="714">The rangan plants are usually grown in gaps of other showy plants for more beautification of the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="715">The rangan should be planted in pits.</sent>
				<sent id ="716">The size of the pit will be 50 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="717">in lenght, 50 cm in width and 50 cm in depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="718">The pit should be dried under direct sunshine for 115 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="719">The above fertilizers should be well mixed with the upper soil of the pit and to be given in the pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="720">The pit should be left for about 15 days for proper decomposition and mixing of the fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="721">The grafts should be planted to such a depth of soil as it was previously in the pot or seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="722">The graft should be bound to a strong stick placed along its stem so that the wind cannot move it.</sent>
				<sent id ="723">The base of the plant should be monitored after applying irrigation water.</sent>
				<sent id ="724">Control of Weeds : Growth of weeds should not be allowed to grow in the fields of rangan plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="725">Weeds should be uprooted as soon as they are seen in the field through nirani.</sent>
				<sent id ="726">Arrangement should be made for irrigation and necessary care must be taken so that excess water can not stand at the base of rangan plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="727">Small drainage canals should be prepared to remove excess rain water.</sent>
				<sent id ="728">Pruning : Pruning is essential for keeping rangan plant small in size.Pruning enhances new shoot growth and produces large sized flower inflorescence.</sent>
				<sent id ="729">The fertilizers given below are to be applied after every pruning per plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="730">Rangan flowers are usually used while preparing bouquets.</sent>
				<sent id ="731">The flowers should be harvested when it is at the budding stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="732">Flower rapidly drop if harvested at the full blooming stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="733">Marigold is also a very popular flower, The cultivation of marigold is very simpie.</sent>
				<sent id ="734">This plant withstands some unfavorable condition also.</sent>
				<sent id ="735">This flower can be cultivated with simple cultural practices.</sent>
				<sent id ="736">So, these can be cultivated in garden, park, pot and baleongh of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="737">This flower is extensively used in functions, festivals, house decoration, preparing garlands, etc. Marigolds also have medicinal value.</sent>
				<sent id ="738">When the sap of this marigold flower is applied over a wound, it is heal up very rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="739">Mainly there are two types of marigold.</sent>
				<sent id ="740">There are African marigold and French marigold.</sent>
				<sent id ="741">African marigold plants are straight and long.</sent>
				<sent id ="742">It can attain a height of30100 cm accordingto different varieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="743">Flowers are fairlylarge and of varieties colours like orange, yellow and maroon.</sent>
				<sent id ="744">French Marigold flower plants are shorter in size and it is bushy .</sent>
				<sent id ="745">It may attain a heights of 15-30 cm according to varieties andcharacters.</sent>
				<sent id ="746">Flowers are smaller in size but enormous in number .</sent>
				<sent id ="747">The colour of the flowers is mainly redish but some varieties have yellow colour also.</sent>
				<sent id ="748">Marigold seedlings may be produced from seeds and stem cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="749">Marigold seedling may be produced by thinly sowing seeds in seed bed in the months of Aswin and Kartik.</sent>
				<sent id ="750">The seed bed of marigold may be prepared like vegetable seed production.</sent>
				<sent id ="751">The stem of marigold is to be cut into Pieces at a length of 5-10 cm for preparing seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="752">The stem cutting should have at least one node under the soil of the seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="753">If irrigated appropriately, the seedling with roots, leaves and twigs will be produced within a short period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="754">The land for growing marigold should be prepared by 4-5 times ploughing or spading, cross ploughing and alternate laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="755">The soil should be given loose structure and fine tilth .High land with loamy texture is most suitable for cultivation of marigold flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="756">The following recommended fertilizers should be applied in the land of marigold flowers per decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="757">All the fertilizers mentioned above should be thoroughly mixed with the soil at the time of land preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="758">The most suitable time of planting the marigold seedling is from Bhadra to Kartik.</sent>
				<sent id ="759">The seedlings are to be planted in rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="760">The distance between rows is 50-60 cm and distance from plant to plant is 30-40 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="761">Two seedlings may be planted in a medium sized tub.</sent>
				<sent id ="762">Irrigation should be given 2-3 days after planting the seedlings, once in the evening every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="763">Irrigation : Necessary irrigation should be provided to marigold plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="764">Control of weeds : Weeds grown in the bed of marigold should be cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="765">Control of insect pests : The attack of pests in marigold plant is normally lower then others.</sent>
				<sent id ="766">The attack by aphids may be slightly higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="767">These insect pests may be controlled by applying insecticide, namely malathion.</sent>
				<sent id ="768">Giving supporting sticks : When the marigold plant grows, larger supporting sticks should be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="769">Pruning : The marigold plant should be duly pruned by breaking the elongated shoots to give it a beautiful bushy shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="770">If large number of flowering buds emerge from a shoot, these should be pruned keeping only one or two good flowering buds.</sent>
				<sent id ="771">This will help to produce bigger size flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="772">Marigold flowers should be harvested along with the stalk and with the help of a scissor.</sent>
				<sent id ="773">The harvested flowers should be wrapped by black polythylene sheet after giving a spray of clear water and then may be sent to the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="774">The marigold flowers may be marketed by making garlands and bouquets.</sent>
				<sent id ="775">Collect a one year old improved variety rose plant (stock plant) grown in a tub.</sent>
				<sent id ="776">Cut the bark of the stem about 25 cm above the base measuring about four cm in length by the sharp knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="777">The cut should cover one third of diameter of the stem including the bark.</sent>
				<sent id ="778">Select a wild rose plant branch as mother scion material of the same age and same diameter.</sent>
				<sent id ="779">Remove one third portion of bark and soft materials as done previously from the stalk plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="780">Place the tub on an elevated place.</sent>
				<sent id ="781">The stock and the scion will be joined after about three months.</sent>
				<sent id ="782">Keep the separated graft in a cool shady place.</sent>
				<sent id ="783">Now cut the apex shoot of the graft and keep it in the nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="784">Plant this contact graft made of an imporved variety with a wild variety in the selected and prepared place after four weeks of the cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="785">Practice for preparing more contact grafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="786">Select a high land in an open air under sunshine, having loamy texture.</sent>
				<sent id ="787">The land will be such that flood water can not reach it and excess rain water do not accumulate.</sent>
				<sent id ="788">Measure a piece of land of three meters length and one meter width by a measuring tape.</sent>
				<sent id ="789">Put up four poles at the four corners of the selected measured plot and fix the boundary with the thin rope or thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="790">Clean the land, remove waste materials, weeds and other dirts.</sent>
				<sent id ="791">Spade the land and make the soil loose as far as posible.</sent>
				<sent id ="792">Then prepare the seed bed making three separate players on the seleted land.</sent>
				<sent id ="793">The first layer will be of four cm high.</sent>
				<sent id ="794">Prepare this layer by spreading pieces of bricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="795">The second layer will also be of four cm high prepare this layer by mixing soil and sand in 50-50 proportions.</sent>
				<sent id ="796">The third layer will also be of four cm high.</sent>
				<sent id ="797">Prepare a mixture with one third soil, one third well rotten cowdung and one third leaf mold compost and place this mixture uniformly.</sent>
				<sent id ="798">Once the Seed bed for raising tube rose seedlings is prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="799">Plant the tube rose corms or tubes in the bed according to the spacing given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="800">Irrigation water in the seed bed after planting the tubers .</sent>
				<sent id ="801">The tubers will greminate within a period 8-10 days .</sent>
				<sent id ="802">These seedling are suitable for planting in the filed when their age will about one month.</sent>
				<sent id ="803">Select one disease free beautiful Rangan plant .</sent>
				<sent id ="804">Select one branch of the plant which lies mostly parallel to the plant at the base.</sent>
				<sent id ="805">The age should be about one year and the diameter like a pencil.</sent>
				<sent id ="806">Measure 50 cm from the apex to the base in length of the branch by a measuring tape.</sent>
				<sent id ="807">Remove the bark.</sent>
				<sent id ="808">Remove the slippery materials of the debarked wood surface and clean the cut place .</sent>
				<sent id ="809">Now make a ball mixing three parts of the clay soil and one of the cowdung by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="810">Place the ball on the cut portion of the branch so that it covers three cm more at both the sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="811">Then give a light spray of water on the ball .</sent>
				<sent id ="812">Now wrap the ball with the polythene piece measuring 20 cm length and breadth each side .</sent>
				<sent id ="813">Tightly bind the top and bottom of the polythene with rope .</sent>
				<sent id ="814">Make a small hole in the polythene to spray water on ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="815">It may be seen after a period of 4-5 weeks that white roots are growing in the guti.</sent>
				<sent id ="816">but later the colour will be brownish or light brown .</sent>
				<sent id ="817">At this time, cut the guti layer and remove it from the mother plant .</sent>
				<sent id ="818">Cut the guti layer at the lower end in several steps cutting only a little at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="819">Care should be taken so that no creak occurs in the stem at time of cutting the layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="820">After detaching the guti layer, remove the excess leaves and twigs of the branch .</sent>
				<sent id ="821">Remove slowly the polythene cover above the guti and place the guti in a seed bed or a tub.</sent>
				<sent id ="822">Irrigate the guti layer lightly .</sent>
				<sent id ="823">The guti layer will be suitable for planting after preserving it 4 5 weeks .</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
