<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-agri-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.662</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">513</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">6610</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2008</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t84">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Arts and Crafts are paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Crafts is hand wrought.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The teacher should be careful about the collection of materials and how these are to be used by the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">It has to be mentioned that the students should draw paintings and make the crafts themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The teacher should never interfere with their works.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">He/she only will observe the dimensions and maturity of the students works and advise them.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">As arts is a hand-wrought subject, the role of an art-teacher is so important.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">This will encourage the students to be self-reliant and grow self confidence.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">One should attend art-exhibitions and visit different museums if he/she goes for air excursion to a big city.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The students should be encouraged to visit the art-colleges and other art institutions to observe the various methods and the media of arts and crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The students have to gather the knowledge that there are many other methods, tools and media besides the text of the book.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">CHAPTER-ONE The Necessity of Drawing Pictures The drawings of pictures and other arts help men to enrich themselves and make their lives beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">What a child does, when he/she draws a picture ?</sent>
				<sent id ="14">What he thinks ?</sent>
				<sent id ="15">What is the size of his drawing-paper?</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Suppose, the measurement of the paper is 3725 c.m.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The child wants to draw a picture of a village.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">He tries to include and express beautifully so many things of such a big village scene in a small piece of white paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Through, this, decorating things beautifully and concentrated feelings discipline is practised in the child's mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Then he thinks about the colours, how and where to apply a particular colour on the subject so that the picture looks nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Then he uses colours to make the picture as beautiful as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Through drawing many pictures they develop habits to do the artistic and beautiful things.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">He becomes self- confident to produce beautiful piece of art as he grows up.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He becomes habituated to look keenly at nature, surroundings, men, animals etc. when he thinks about the subjects of paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In this way the child gains a lot of knowledge about many things.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">This child, when he grows up becomes capable of taking any responsibility.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Suppose, he becomes a director of an institution in which two hundred men work.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Let us think in a different way.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The artists are a very important and necessary part in all the spheres of activities of social life in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">blacksmith, potters, weavers, goldsmiths, spinner and craftsmen of bamboos and canes.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The girls and women do embroidered quilts, shital pati (mat) zainamaz, durries, fans etc, by weaving and doing embroidery works.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The eagerness of the modern people has been growing rapidly in the field of folk-arts, arts and crafts for day to day living.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">For this reason, all kinds of craftsmanship and fine arts is needed to be practised, to be skilled and perfected.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Artists are doing responsible jobs in various spheres of modern life.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The artists are needed for publishing books and news papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Importance of drawing is many fold in education, specially in engineering, medical science, sculpture, different-science education, history, geography etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Artists are needed for every television programme.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">It is not possible to do any drama or cinema without a fine-artist and set decorator.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Even pen, pencil, knife and different furniture, an artist or craftsman is very much needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The fine artist and craftsman make designs for the boxes of books, various covers of things.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The painters work for the advertisements, posters and signboards too.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The fame of the fine artists of Bangladesh has spread over the world for the designing of dresses, sarees, panzabis and paintings also.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">There are many countries and many nations all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">All of them have different languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">A man learns two or three more languages according to his need.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">But a few linguists can learn eight to ten languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The paintings were the medium of exchanging ideas and thoughts of men from the primitive age.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The primitive men expressed their ideas, views and thoughts by drawing pictures and various signs.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The letters of different languages have come from these pictures and signs.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">You will be able to know gradually about all these by reading books.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">A true story about how pictures can be the language of all men is narrated here.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">A famous writer's house is in Dhaka city.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">A homely gathering has assembled there and made a complete gathering by the presence of writers, artists, singer and other intelectuals.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The discussions ranged from politics, economics, literatures, cultures and many other subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The event took place a long ago, perhaps in the year of 1963 or Dr. Mohammad Shahid-ullah, Dr. Md.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Enamul Haque, Munir Chowdhury, Professor Mansur-uddin and more other like them were among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">There were long discussion of the various languages all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Shahid ullah knew many languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">He was specialized at least in eighteen languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Some of them knew three, some four, some five and some two languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The atmosphere was vibrant with all these discussions.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">One of them was listening attentively sitting quietly in a corner.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">After a long time he said, Listen I have been listening to all your conversations.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Some of you know two, some three, some four or five languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Dr. Shahidullah is the exception.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He is an expert in many languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">But I know a little bit of my mother tongue and English.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Besides this I do not know any other language.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">But I know a language which may be called the language of the world or the language of all men.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Because the people of every corner speaking any language will understand this language easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">None of you know this language.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">All of them in the meeting looked at this person sitting in a corner.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Listening to him, all became speechless.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">All tried to recover the meanings of his words.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">After some time they could realize the real significance of his words and became highly delighted with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They answered, Yes, right you are of course you can, you have that quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The person who was speaking like this was Shilpacharya Zainul Abedin.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">He painted pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">And it is true that everyone can understand pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">To understand pictures of one country is not at all difficult for the people of another country, though they may speak in a different language.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">We could easily learn about the primitive men, their life style, societies etc..</sent>
				<sent id ="82">We could also learn about the societies and cultures of the very early periods.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The painting is the language of the world or everyone's language, this name was given by Shilpachariya Zainul Abedin.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He gave a description of an experience about this name in that gathering.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">He went on a travel to Europe at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Travelling a few countries of Europe via Paris, he reached Spain.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He could manage by speaking a little English in other countries but in Paris he met with a strange incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">In Spain it is the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The Spanish do not want to speak in any other language except their own language.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Even if they learn any other they are tactful enough not to disclose it.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">But these few words are not enough for travelling extensively.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The artist faced a difficult situation when he arrived in Spain.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">He knew nothing about Spanish.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Though he knew a few French words, these are absolute here.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Asking, pargle vous Englais, he roamed here and there but a person knowing English could not be found.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Entering a restaurant the artist would follow the activities of the people from distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">He would not sit in a crowd, when the space was vacant he would choose a lonely table.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">He tried to make the waiter understand by making signs, what he wanted to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">He often became tired to trying to make them understand but he failed to make them understand, what he would like to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">So, there was no way but to depend on the waiter's mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He could not get the food of his taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Something happened at noon one day.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The artist was hungry.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">He sat at an empty table in the varanda of a restaurant.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">He looked around for a hotel boy, but couldn't find out.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">A gentle man was eating a fried-prawn with a bread at a little- distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Seeing the decorated prawn in his dish, the artist wanted to eat it.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He had almost forgotten about the last time he had tasted prawn ask in his home country.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Seeing prawns that day, he had an ardent desire to eat it, after a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">For this reason he began to search for the waiter (hotel boy).</sent>
				<sent id ="111">But there is no trace of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">He could have given the order for food easily showing the gentle man's dish, if the waiter could be found.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Finally, what he had apprehended, actually happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The waiter (hotel boy) came back after fifteen minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He was very busy.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Inside there was a big crowd of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The waiter asked him in his own language what the artist wanted to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">To be answered in a hurry as he had no - time.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">He tried his best to make him understand about the fried-prawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The waiter rattled in French morning a in number of food, but a single word was not understood.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Zainul Abedin gave up the hope of eating the much desired fried prawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">But the waiter was obstinate.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He was not willing to disappoint the customer.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">He told the artist to follow him inside by gesture.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">In the restaurant it was very crowded.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The waiter took him inside the kitchen, passing many people.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The kitchen was very neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Most of the workers were girls.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It seemed that the waiter told them about the artist.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">All of them looked at the artist with smiling faces and pity.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">They began to display the legs of this and that to ask the artist what kind of food he wanted.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The artist was answering politely no monsicur no monsicur.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">It continued for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">He felt ashamed.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">But the girls were not at all annoyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Suddenly, one of them showed a leg of a prawn, then the artist had a smile on his face.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The girls were dying with laughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">For this ordinary thing lie had done so much!</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He fell so ashamed, he thought he should not have done so.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">All, of the restaurant were smiling.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The girls of that kitchen will have something to laugh about for a long time thinking about this brown man's activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">He was eating the prawn unmindfully and was thinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">But it was nobody's fault, so what could I do ?</sent>
				<sent id ="144">I cannot speak their language, and can't make them understand!</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Suddenly he had an idea.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">He decided that, he would come to the same restaurant in the evening for dinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">That waiter appeared with a suppressed smile as soon as he entered the restaurant at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Zainul Abedin did not feel depressed at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">He took out the pencil from his pocket and opened an exercise book.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Then began his tasks.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He drew a pan to boil eggs and one fry-pan on the other side on a white paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Then drawing a big cow, a back-thigh of the cow he put an arrow sign towords the boiling pan.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">That meant, he wanted to eat the cooked meat of that thigh.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Then an egg of a hen, cauliflower, potato and all necessary foods which he wanted to eat was drawn one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The waiter was very much amazed.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">There was a big crowd in short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Many people gathered in the whole restaurant.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">They were noticing the artist's new and amazing process of giving an order for food.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The artist lifted his head and looked around after a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Answering the question in their eyes he disclosed his identification that he was an artist.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Everyone was delighted and wanted to help him.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">One of them said `Excuse me in English, then came near him eagerly and asked, May I sit ?</sent>
				<sent id ="163">.May I help you ?</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The waiter rushed to the kitchen to bring food, which were drawn in the sketch-book.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">All foods were served in a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The gentle man, who knew English invited him to his residence.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">He wanted to introduce the artist to his other friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Shilpachariya Zainul Abedin never again felt inconvenient to travel in foreign countries, after that.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Because, he used to keep the sketch -book and pencils with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The pictures, which children draw can be named Childrens Arts.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Elders draw pictures with various medias.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">These are called `Arts.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Statues or forms which are done with wood, cement and stone are called Sculptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The planning of designs of houses, different buildings, institutions, monuments etc. is called architecture.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Fine arts, sculptures and other arts are called Arts in a word.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The artist thinks about a lot, when he does the art-works.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">He keeps in mind about his society, family and the people around him.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The artist expresses tile mood of his emotion, happiness, sorrow and grief in his creations of Arts.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">It will bring happiness to people who will be able to identify their thoughts and life style with the pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">their minds will be moved with its beauty, such thoughts inspire the artist's mind when there is some mysterious, appeal in the artist's creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">then those creations are called the Aesthetic Arts.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Aesthetic came from the word delightful.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Delightful means the Paradise (The garden of Eden).</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Men's need are two kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">First one is- mental-need which means the feeling sense of beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Another is physical- need that means need of daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Fine Arts fulfill the menta1 need and Crafts help to fulfill the need of daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">People use arts in many ways to make their lives beautiful and to live in peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">They try to make different designs around the window-blind, they make different designs with bamboos and canes and also make designs on doors and windows.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The reason for doing all these are inherent liking for artistic thing in every man's mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Every one wants to live nicely.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The houses of the owner of an agricultural farm, Zemindars or rich people of a village are kept neatly.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Those furnitures may be made of wood, irons even canes and bamboos.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">People need thousands of things for their daily use and family lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The people put various arts-forms in these articles.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Such as clay-vessels, pitchers, flagons, plates, glasses, chillum-holders, betel-leafs pots made of brass and bell-metal.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Heavy knives axes, spades, sickles, pans, mill stones/nut-crackers made of iron etc..</sent>
				<sent id ="198">These are made artistically and beautifully designed in sculptures and some times are decorated with creepers and herbs, flowers, birds etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">These utensils which are done artistically are called Crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">There are many other medias of the famous crafts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The vehicles-boats, palanquins (palki) rickshaws are famous as beautiful products of craftsmanship of Bangladesh in many countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">There are efficient work of arts in making boats of different shapes and forms and also carved designs are done on the boat's wooden parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">There are inscriptions on palanquins (palki) of the same kind.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The boats are introduced in various names for their appearances.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Such as `Gaina; Panshi, Bazra, Cosha, Sharang, Shampan, `Dip, Fishermen-boats etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Painted pictures are stacked behind the rickshaw.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Even the rickshaw is an attractive crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">their ornaments, glass bangles, ear-shall-buttons, dolls, bone combs are mentionable crafts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">There are similarity and connection between folk arts and crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">When the potter makes clay vesseles, pitchers then these are crafts and cottage-crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">When, the pictures are drawn with colours on these clay vessels, then they become Shokher Haris, and are called Folk arts.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">On clay elephants of all sizes horses and dolls of men are coloured with red, yellow, blue, pink.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">black and many different colour very attractively.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Putting these elephants and horses on a wooden deck, when four wheels are fixed under these they may be used as toys.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The embroidery quilt is a famous folk art of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The women and girls sew these quilts for day in various coloured designs with needle and thread in their leisure time.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Many stories and episodes are woven in these pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The married women express the story of sorrow and happiness of their own lives with needle and thread in the pictures on their quilts.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">It takes one year, sometimes two years to sew a nice quilt.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">One can't help being astonished to see it's artistic skill.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The village girls do various weaving works with coloured thread jute-fibres, jute-ropes, Such as carpets (durries) Jainamaz, towels etc..</sent>
				<sent id ="222">These weaving things and jute-shikas, shital-pati (a soothing and coolmat to lie upon) mats, fans made of thin-flat canes are our folk-arts and crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Pot is a kind of picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">There are a few artists who are God gifted avid can draw good pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">They never learn to draw pictures in any art-schools or institutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Pots are basically stories or episodes expressed in pictures which are drawn on a long piece of cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">They are cut into separate pictures, the story starts from one piece and maintaining, the continuation story goes on.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The owner of the Pot explains the story of the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The listeners enjoy the story expressed through the pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">One example cf this kind of a famous picture story of Pot is Gazis pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">This art of Pot is one of our mentionable folk-arts.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The other folk arts of Bangladesh are dolls of sponge-woods, sea shelf-dolls.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Which is the most ancient picture of the region named Bangladesh?</sent>
				<sent id ="234">What is sculpture ?</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Where can sculptures and other works of arts be seen ?</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Storms and natural disasters are a common factor.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Most of the people of this region were ordinary poor farmers.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">There was a practice of paintings and other arts among kings, emperors and rulers.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Their buildings and palaces only were built with lasting materials like bricks and stone-arches.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The houses of common people were built with hemps, hays, bamboos and straws.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The kings of the Maurya Dynasty ruled this country for some time before the birth of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The emperor Ashoka was a powerful king of this race.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The emperors of Gupta-race ruled for several hundred years from four-hundred B.C.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The names of famous emperors of Gupta-race are Shamudra Gupta, Kumar Gupta, Bainya Gupta and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">After this, the emparors of pal-race ruled for a few hundred of years.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Some of the powerful emperors of this race, which can be found are Gopal, Dharmapal, Devpal, Mohipal, Rampal and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Then came the emperors of the Barmans and the Royal family of Sens.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The whole land of Bengal was divided into two divisions at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The Puranabardhan or the Gauda-Kingdom was the south and south-west region.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The (plain surface) Shamatat was name of north-east parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Baktiar Khilzi snatched away the region called Bengal from the emperors Lackhman Sen in 1204 B.C. and began to rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">He was a Turk.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Then came of the Muslim-emperors reign for a few hundred of years upto the Moghal emperor Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The name of this period is Sultani-regime.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The mentionable emperors of that regime were Fakruddin Mubarrak Shah.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Shams-Uddin Ilias Shah, Sekandar Shah, Giash-Uddin Azam Shah, Jalal-Uddin Mahmod Shah, Ala-Uddin Hossain Shah, Giash-Uddin, Deen Mehmud Shah and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">After this Bengal was ruled by the Moghal, sometimes by certain independent kings or princes.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">After that, in 1947, it became independent as two separate states called Pakistan and India (Bharat).</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Pakistan had two parts East Pakistan and West Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">East Pakistan was freed from West Pakistan, after a war with the armies of West Pakistan in 1971 and established the present Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">There was continuous rivalry, hostilities and waifares between one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Plundering, arson (putting fire), destroying the conquered area was a normal matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">For the reason, some areas would become devoid of habitation (empty).</sent>
				<sent id ="264">When it was empty for long period it was gradually covered by soil, also often by earthquakes and rainstorms.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">It caused vast areas to get concealed under the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Three wreckages of ancient towns and civilisation like this were discovered, by digging the piles of earth and other areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">These are the Pahairpur of Rajshahi, Mainamati of Comilla and Mahastangar of Bagura.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Lying covered by the earth most of the things of there ancient civilisation were ruined.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">These are evidences of ancient arts and architecturs of ancient Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">We can understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">the ancient-architectural examples from the remains of ruined buildings, arches,, pillars, foundation of walls and frames.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">The delicate painting and other pieces of art could not be salvaged after being buried for so long and after earthquakes and calamities.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Only the objects made of eroded iron, copper, gold-silver, stone and some terracottas could be found.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">It has been mentioned before that, after collecting and cleaning these things they have been preserved in different museums.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The statues, made of touch stones or black stones are valuable among the ancient arts of Bangladesh for their artistic speciality.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">These statues can be seen in the Dhaka national museum and Barendra museum (North Bengal).</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Terracotta, stone-engraving slabs and slab-writings are the famous ancient pieces of arts.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Whatever has been found after digging the earth, have been kept in different museums.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Those valuable traditional slabs are being engraved beautifully in many old buildings, walls of mosques and temples.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">These mosques and temples are the evidences of valuable ancient sculpture.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">There are some more evidences of the.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">ancient sculpture as Boracatra and Chotocatra of Dhaka, Lalbagh-fort, Binat Bibi's mosque, Khan Md.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">There are many materials used for drawings, papers, boards, canvases, colours, brushes etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">There are so many kinds of papers, canvases, colours that can't be counted.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">The papers used for drawing can be thin, thick, rough surfaced, smooth, shining and of various colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">We can use simple writing papers for pencil or pen- sketches or rough sketches.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">But to draw a perfect or beautiful painting, a special kind of paper has to be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The papers easily available in Bangladesh for painting called Cartridge paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The cartridge papers are most suitable for practicing drawings over and over again.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Pictures can be drawn with pencil, pen-ink, brush-ink and pencil on, slightly thick milk-white offset paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Water colour or pastel colours are not very ideal for using on this paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Pictures look better on, thick-rough surfacad cartridge papers and in special hand-made papers with water colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Which are used to draw with water colours and pastel colours are sometimes found abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">But, usually light or deep coloured papers are better for drawing with pastel colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Some-special thick coloured papers are made for drawing with pastel colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">The box-board mentioned above, are mostly used to make packets for different things.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">The box-boards are suitable, to mount pictures that is to frame a picture beautifully, keeping spaces as margins around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Art-board paper is the same as a box-board.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">The surface of art-boards are smooth on both sides pictures can be drawn on it, with pen-ink and brush ink only.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Art paper is not so good for paintings, but it is suitable for printing pictures specially coloured pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Pictures may be drawn on brown coloured paste board papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">But the artists always choose the papers in which lie feels comfortable to draw.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Various thin, thick coloured papers and news papers, written coloured pictures are used for this kind of pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">These pictures are called Colladge.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">We use H.B. pencil to write or to draw lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">To draw pictures 2B, 3B, 4B, 5B and 6B graded pencils are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The numbers are written on these pencils.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">HB pencil doesn't make dark impression on paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">The leads of 2B, 3B, 4B, 5B and 6B range from light to dark colour according to the number.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">If the artist wishes, he can draw a complete picture with any one of these pencils.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">It is possible to draw a picture with all these pencils e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">2B, 4B and 6B or with any one of these.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">A picture can be drawn with the usual pen with which we write.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">But there are many kinds of pens to draw thin and thick lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">It is possible to draw pictures with pens named felt-pen or signature pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Many of the artists use these pens for sketching.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Felt-pens and signature-pens are of various colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Many of the artists draw pictures with ink-pen dipping nib-pens into the ink-pots.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">The ink used is normally black.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">There is a special kind of ink for drawing pictures, which is called black-ink or Chinese ink from very ancient time.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">The ancient artists of China used to give great importance to black ink and since then it is still the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">The black-ink is called `Chinese ink, because it was so widely used by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">This is also called Indian-ink.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The artists both Zainul Abedin and Qamrul Hassan of our country drew many of their paintings in black-ink.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Zainul Abedin's pictures on the subject Famine 1943' were drawn with black ink.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">He himself used to make pens with khag (bamboo branch) to draw pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">The khags are available in plenty in villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Many of the artists make pens with thin bamboo twig and use to draw pictures with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Tagore the world famous poet drew most of his pictures with black ink and pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">His drawing of pictures, began while doing rough rewritings and correcting his poems.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">But he used mostly black, green and red-ink.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Picture can be drawn by dipping brushes in ink.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">The drawing of pictures can not be imagined without brushes.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Different brushes are used for different kinds of papers and canvases.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">The soft, fur- brushes are used for ink and water colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">The soft fur-brushes are used for oil-colour and the other sticky colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">The fur brushes are collected from the fur of different animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">There is one kind of mongoose, named sable whose fur is very valuable.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The best brushes for water colour are made of the sable-hair: The word Sable hair is written on brushes which are made of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">The water colour brushes are made from camels fur.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Brushes are also made of synthetic hair, now-a-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Different kinds of brushes are made ranging from thin to thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Board-clips, easel etc. Fixing paper on a board with clips, is very convenient for drawing pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">The easel is a stand to keep a board upright.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">This easel is usually made of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">But an easel is not absolutely essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Many people hold the board in one hand and draw pictures sitting on the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Usually it depends on the artist how he will draw pictures and what materials he will choose for drawing.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Can pictures be drawn without colours ?</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Can we say that pencils, charcoals and ink are colours?</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Yes, pencils, charcoals, ink, all are colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">These are used as colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">But here by colour we mean coloured pictures, which can be of different colours of red, blue, green, etc..</sent>
				<sent id ="354">The colours are found in different types.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">The water colours are found in tubes, decorated in cells in a box, small cakes, and as powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">The poster colours are found in the glass- pots.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Pictures can be drawn with poster colours just like water colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Though, there is difference in quality between water and poster colours, with both the colours paintings are drawn by mixing it with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The water colour is comparatively light and transparent.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The colour does not disappear completely, if it is coated by another colour both the colours can be identified.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">But one colour can be covered comp1ete1y by another in case of poster colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The water is to be mixed carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">There is more freedom and easy while drawing with the poster colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">For your age group it is easier to draw pictures with poster colours (as like the water colours).</sent>
				<sent id ="365">If pictures can be drawn with powder colours by mixing it with water and it looks just like water colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">But the picturs will be good and permanent by mixing Arabic gum or Aika gum with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">The pastel colours are made of two qualities chalk-pastel and oil-pastel or crayon pestel.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">The thin small sticks are kept in a box.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">You will find these chalk-pastels and wax pastels in the shops of colours which are made at home and abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">The liquid transparent fixetive spray can be sprayed on the pictures of chalk-pastel to make them permanent.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Otherwise the coloures may become dusty and be faded if the pictures are handled.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">On the other hand it is very convenient to draw pictures with oil pastels.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">The subjects of paintings can be found in our surroundings.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">If we look around, we can find so many subjects matters in our life-style, environment and nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">People are aware of the surroundings they live in.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">It is easier for a person living in a village to draw the houses of the village.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">The life-style of city people is very different from the village-people.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Roads, buildings, narrow-streets, slum areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">parks, bazars, games, festivals, functions etc. of a city may be the subjects of the paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">There are many kinds of animals in zoos of city.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">The movement of birds and animals, their amusing activities like sleeping, playings and gestures may the subjects of pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Fowls, cows, goats, dogs, cats etc. are kept as pet, almost in every house of village.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">The wild birds are kept as pet for amusement too.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Many of the artists take these as subjects of their.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">There are many famous pictures of renowned artists based on birds and animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Many of the artists drew many famous pictures on fish, bird, horse, pond, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">The portraits of beloved persons may be the subjects of the paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Tile artist should have a clear conceptions on which subjects he wants to draw.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">One who has never been in the village and has never seen rivers and boats, how can he/she draw a picture of a village?</sent>
				<sent id ="390">The conceptions should be clear about the environment and nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">The same personal experience and awareness is necessary to draw the pictures of cities or ports.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Painting and drawing is a creative work done for one's own choice and pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">The artist tries to draw simply, whatever he or she thinks, according to his or her convenience and comfort.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">No rule should be imposed for children's paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">It is enough, if they can fill the pictures with colours and lines as they think and wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Children should have the freedom to draw freely as they have learnt from childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">The pictures drawn by children will never be the same as there drawn by elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">There is another characteristic and form in the child-art.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">The cow, fish, tree, people, everything has a child-like characteristic, which is drawn by a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">As the children grew up, the expansion and style of paintings changes too.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">You have been introduced to the simple rules of drawing pictures in class six and seven.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">There will not be much change in class eight.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Observe keenly, the houses, trees, boats, vehicles, horses, people, birds and animals, which are in our surroundings.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">How do they look?</sent>
				<sent id ="405">What are the actual forms ?</sent>
				<sent id ="406">As the-children are growing, they wish to draw accurately the actual forms and shapes of the above mentioned things.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">For that reasons, a few rules must be followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">There should be a habit of practising drawings again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">All things of nature are of three basic shapes of round, square or triangular shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Later, three shapes may be changed into various forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Then the question of size arises.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Because, age an important to draw anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">There are three main sizes.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Such as small, medium and large.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Different similarities and dissimilarities of forms and shapes can be seen in the pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Examples of same pictures are shown here.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">What will the size of the boat in proportions to the man be?</sent>
				<sent id ="418">If there is a tree nearby, what will should the relative size of the tree be ?</sent>
				<sent id ="419">All these are to be considered to draw a picture properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The comparison in size or proportion of small and big thing is to be shown properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Suppose there are three boats and many people, the proportional distance may be shown.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Then only the distance can be made perceptible in a painting.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">So, it is, very much important in paintings.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">The paintings may be very beautiful, they will not become realistic is the proportion is not clearly marked.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">The main purpose of the proportion is to show the comparison of how big or small a thing is to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">A drawing should be done deciding distance and portion- of a subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">The boats, houses and people have been drawn smaller to show the distance and proportion in the above picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Light and shade is shown in the below-picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">The light and shade have an important role in the paintings except straight line drawings and designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Nearness, distance, surrounding, around-below etc. can be shown in a painting through light and shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Otherwise the painting do not look lively.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">For that reason, light and shade should be shown properly in a painting.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Light and shade is as important as day and night due to sun shine.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">It is natural to be shaded and dark against the sun-shine.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Such as there is one kind of light and shade in the morning and another at noon.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">The shade of the bright sun is bright too.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">The ray of the sun is soft in the afternoon and the shade is soft also.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">The sun sets in the evening, that's why it is dark, The light and shade can be divided in three groups for drawing pictures conveniently.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">So it is evident that, a few common rules, should be maintained to draw a beautiful picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">But the main thing is that the subject must be studied and noticed minutely.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">While drawing a picture, one should be easy and courageous.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Colour as you like, keep away hesitation and fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Drawing a picture will be on amusing game and joyous work for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Then you will see your pictures are becoming better day by day, as you are drawing more and more.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Suppose, the subject of a painting is a village home.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Three houses, trees, yard, family-members, hens and ducks may be there.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">These things are to be arranged.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">How and where to put them, so that the picture looks beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Arranging these things nicely is called the arrangement of the subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">A subject may be arranged in four or five ways select the best one, draw that one and put colours and light-shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">This is not always possible to learn to use colours properly by reading books.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Because drawing pictures can be mastered only through direct practice and training.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">By colouring and drawing pictures again and again, one can be master of art by using of various colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">Certainly the students will learn how to colour properly in different ways from the art-teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">The teachers should teach how to use water, poster, pastel colours and signature pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">The teacher should teach the rules of these doing himself in every media separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">Collecting the proper papers for every media and drawing, he will make the students understand about these.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">By now you have certainly acquired knowledge about the primary and secondary colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">But it is mentioned here again to remind you.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">The other necessary colours can be prepared- by mixing primary colours with secondary colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">But it is not possible to get milk white, white and black colours mixing with other colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">It is possible to prepare a deep black colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Pictures are painted with some colours, which are mixed with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">These colours are called water colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">The water colours can be found in a box and square tablets.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">The loose tablets can be found too.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">But there are water colours in tubes like tooth paste.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">It is very much convenient to use these colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">There is another kind of colour, named poster-colours, nearly the water colour paste.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">This can be found in a bottle made of glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">The poster colour can be used with the water to paint a picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Though it is similar to water colour, but its quality is a bit different the water colour is transparent and thin.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">It cannot be covered, putting one colour on the another.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">Both colours can be seen due to its transparency and make another colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">One poster colour can be covered completely with another poster colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">The poster colour is thicker and heavier than the water colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Usually, the water colour and the poster colour are used on papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">Slightly rough surfaced thicker paper is suitable to paint a picture with water colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">The picture may be drawn on thick cartridge papers, which is available in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">Who even can offer to may collect the hand made or other superior quality papers .</sent>
				<sent id ="481">Wax-crayon, oil-pastel and chalk-pastel are sticks of colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">The painting is done by rubbing these coloured sticks on the papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">There is no need of mixing water, oil or gum.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">But the liquid fixative mixture-spray is used for the chalk paste to make it permanent.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">This liquid fixative can be found in a bottle, in the shop, where the colours are sold.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Usually the oil colour is found in a tube as the paste.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">The painting is done by mixing linseed oil and tarpeen with this colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">The painting is done on the thick canvas, hard-board and a plank of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">The paper is made specially for the oil colour painting.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">There is no need of painting with oil colour in class eight even in the following two or three years.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">It is better to paint with oil colours after acquiring experiences of painting a few painting with water coloures and pastel colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">It may be mentioned that, by practicing drawing and other arts again and again it is possible to learn if thoroughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">For that many of the paintings, have to be practised.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">One or two paintings will not be sufficient to be expert in paintings properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Handicrafts should also be practiced again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">The teacher should make the students understand well.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">The teachers and guardians also should work hard to encourage and amuse the children while making arts and crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">The word Design is not only used in drawings, but also used in novels and story-writings.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">In case of drawing a picture, English word Design is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">The design is a simple and easy picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">The picture design is done curtailing many things of a realistic picture and making it easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">We use designs, for our various needs in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">The designs are involved every where in our life style.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">Coloured and different coloured designs are scattared around, in sarees, frocks, panzabees, curtains and children's dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">The primitive men's dresses are full of variety of designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">There is no derth of designs on the houses, furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">It seems that, everywhere there is necessity of designs e.g. on vessels, plates, pots, cakes, even on food.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">We use designs in books, newspapers advertisements, invitation cards, addresses of honour, birth-day and in wedding and on various occasions in different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Our folk art attracts our minds for their nice designs and bright colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">The embroidered quilts sital paties (mat) Jainamaz, hand fans, dolls, shakherharies, alpanas (white paint with liquid rice-paste) are done with nice designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">The rickshaw in which we go here and there have beautiful colourful designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">It is known for its showy dcsigns.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">The uses of designs in life style is the expressing of amusement, emotion cheerfulness of minds.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
