<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-agri-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.608</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">389</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5417</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1416</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t83">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The contribution of trees and plant in the daily life of human being are numerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">A number of such contributions may directly be measured.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">For example, timber wood, fuel wood, fruits and vegetables, medicinal and pharmaceuticals raw materials, etc. are obtained from trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The economic value of these materials may be estimated.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">On the other hand there are too many benefits whose economic values cannot be determined directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">For example, the comfort we get when we sit under tree at the time of heated sunshine.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Birds and other wild animals, such as monkeys, girgits, snakes, etc. live on tree plants and take shelter on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Plants reduce erosion of soil, increase the fertility of soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Trees protect lives and wealths during storms and tornadoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Above all, trees protect the balance of the natural environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The importance of trees may be categorized into two groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Timber wood, fuel wood, raw materials for industries, food and pharmaceutical materials are mainly obtained from forest trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Besides, colouring materials, essential oils, flavour materials and similar other chemical products may directly be collected from the forest tree resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Timber wood has important contributions to the daily life of human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Wood is utilized in construction of houses, preparing furniture and making agricultural implements and related accessories.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Wood is also used in railway sleeper making.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The demand of wood in Bangladesh is increasing day by day with the increae of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">At present about 82 lacs cubic meters wood per year is harvested from the forests and rural areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Its market price is about 10 thousand crores of taka.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">On the other hand, about 10 lacs people of the country are directly dependent on forest for their livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Thus wood is playing a very important role in the economic development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Large quantities of fuel woods are also used in brick fields and curing of tobacco in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">As a result, the fertility of soil could be increased and crop production would be better.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">But due to excessive cut of forest, plants and trees are gradually reducing in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">This is causing serious depletion of soil organic matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The present demand for fuel wood in Bangladesh is about three crores cubic meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Lacs of people are involved in the fuel wood collection and sales.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Thus, the trees of forest and rural areas of Bangladesh play a great economic role through meeting the demand of fuel wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The raw materials required for paper, rayon, matches, tea chess, hard board come from the forest tree plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The important raw materials for the two largest paper mills of the country are wood and bamboo collected from the forest areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">About 42 thousand tons of bamboo and 50 thousand cubic meters of wood (pulp wood) is utilized by the Karnaphuli Paper Mill per year.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">About one and a half lac cubic meters Gaoa wood is utilized in Khulna Newsprint Mill per year.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Moreover, innumerable small industries and cottage industries get their raw materials from the trees of forest areas and rural small and cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Bamboo, cane and murta have much importance in the furniture and handicrafts industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Presently these type of handicrafts are exported to foreign countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">In this way crores of foreign currencies are earned by Bangladesh and people of the country are getting more and more employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">So, trees and plants supplying raw materials for the industries playing a great role in the economic development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">There are many medicinal and pharmaceutical plants growing in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Amlaki, Haritaki, Bohera, Arjun, Basak, Ashoke, Tulsi, etc. so many names of medicinal plants are know to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">These medicinal plants playing an important role from the ancient time in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The medicinal plants are used as raw materials in the ayurbedic pharmaceutical industries of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Thousands of people are getting employment in these Ayurbedic Pharmaceutical Industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Innumerable people of the country are getting benefit by using ayurbedic and other rural medicines.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">We are getting many other fruits, vegetables, juices, etc. which have enough food value and importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">So many wild animals and birds are living by eating the fruits and vegetables growing in forest environments.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Besides timber wood, fuel wood, raw materials for industries and medicinal materials, tree plants give us many other daily essential materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Tree foliage are used as food for livestock.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">We get fibres for making cloths from plants, for example cotton fibre, rayon fibre are produced from bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Wood charcoal is also produced from plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">These coals are utilized in industries and in scientific works.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">About 150 tons of honey is collected every year from Sundarban alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Many people are employed and dependent for livelihood on collection and business of honey and wax in the Sundarban area.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The context of forest plantation comes first when we discuss about environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The role of forest plants are unlimited in controlling the balance of environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Thus, it is essential to have forest areas that is forest plantations covering 25 per cent area of a country to maintain the environmental balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The ways or process by which forest plantations contribute in maintaining environmental balance are briefly discussed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Plants absorb excess carbon di-oxide from the atmosphere and release oxygen to the air in exchange.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">In this way oxygen content of the atmospheric air is balanced.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Atmosphere free of pollutants and its temperature is controlled.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Plantation increases the relative humidity of atmosphere releasing moisture through transpiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">In this way higher relative humidity of the atmosphere helps in increasing rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Plants prevent soil erosion, increase soil fertility and storage of under ground water and above all keep the climate and weather moderate.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Plants supply food and shelter to wild animals, birds, insects, etc. Influence of Plantations in Preventing Natural Hazards.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Plantations effectively prevent climatic extremities.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">It keeps the climate and weather moderate and comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">These processes combinedly helps to reduce the probability of natural hazards, such as storms and tornadoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Plantations prevent soil erosion and land slide in the hilly areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">As a result plantations increase the navigability of rivers and canals and reduce flood hazards.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The losses of lives and wealths are thus reduced to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Plantations increase the underground water storage capacity through increasing absorption of water on the soil surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Big trees when planted in homestead protect the houses from the losses due to storms and tornadoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Plantations increase the abosorption of water within the soil and thus increase the underground storage of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Increased soil moisture thus achieved reduces the dryness of the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The weather remains moderate.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Simultaneously, plants through transpiration increase the water vapour or relative humidity of the atmospheric air.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The water vapour helps in occurring rainfall in an area.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Birds of diversified characteristics are the important natural resources of a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Birds do many beneficial activities by eating harmful insect pests.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Besides, the wild animals and birds also eat or destroy many insect pests and small animal bringing beneficial influence to human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The plantations are the habitat for such wild animals and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">In absence of these plantations the wild animals and birds will get extinct gradually and human being will be deprived to those beneficial activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Every human being requires to do different types of work for their livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Man thus feels monotony after continuous hard working.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">At that time man requires rest and mental entertainment to remove the mental agony and monotony of work and physical tiredness.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Human being mostly like the plantation surrounded open air places, songs of wild birds and diverse natural aesthetic beautiful environments for their mental entertainment.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">That's why picnics are arranged in natural and beautiful forest environments every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The National Parks at Bhawal near Dhaka and Modhupur National Park are the most important centres for picnic and entertainment.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Other centres for human entertainment attractions are the Himchari, Inani, Teknaf near Cox's Bazer, Jointia of Sylhet, Ramsagar of Dinajpur and Hiranpoint of Sundarban.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Bamboo plays a great role in rural economy of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Bamboo is popularly known as the poor man's wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Because most of the rural houses are made of bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Bamboo is also the principal raw material for cottage industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Besides, the large industries for example paper and rayon industries use bamboo as raw materials and bamboo greatly contributes in their production.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">There are twenty three species of bamboo in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">According to the places of growing, it is divided forest bamboo and rural bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Forest bamboo mainly includes Muli, Mitinga, Dolu and forest Noli.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The walls of these bamboos are thin.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">These bamboos are mostly lused in preparing thatches.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The rural bamboo mainly includes Barak, Barua,Talla, Batua, Makla, Maral, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The walls of these bamboos are thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">These bamboos are principally used in strong functions like poles and frames of houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Every bamboo species may have different specific local names.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Bamboo is normally cultivated through motha or rhizomes in rural Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">In this process a middle age bamboo is cut 100-150 cm above the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The bamboo base is uprooted along with the rhizome and planted to a selected new place.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Care should be taken so that the cut rhizome contains 2 to 3 viable eye buds.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Water should be irrigated to the planted motha if there is absence of rainfall after its plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The cut end of the bamboo should be covered by a polythylence or a similar material.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The most suitable time of planting bamboo motha is the month of Baishakh.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The bamboo mothas are usually planted in a slanting position.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The spacing distance from one motha to another motha should be five to six meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The bamboos grow to the large extent in height and girdth during the first 4-5 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">At the later stage mostly the walls of the bamboos become thicker and thicker.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">One single bamboo motha after planting gradually grows and multiplies and converted to a large bush in due course.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">A bamboo bush may produce 25-50 bamboos.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">A bamboo of one to two years of age is layed on the soil in this system.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Then the bamboo is placed under shallow depth soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">This is usually done in the month of Baishakh.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">New roots and shoots (motha like) are developed from some nodes of the laid down bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The newly developed shoots look like a small bamboo seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">A bamboo plant flowers only once in its whole life cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Bamboo produces flowers in a period of 20-100 years according to species characters.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">After flowering the bamboo bush dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">At this stage bamboo seeds may be collected for producing bamboo seedlings and establishing bamboo gardens.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Bamboo seedlings may be produced in poly bags puting seeds into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It is not only planting of bamboo, but appropriate cultural practices are to be done to have satisfactory production.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The bamboo gardens should be irrigated during drought period.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The surrounding places of the bamboo bush should be well spaded and the soil should be made loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">If possible, the base of the bamboo bush should be covered with straws and leaf mulches after mixing cowdung with the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">If the bamboo bush is uncleaned then the bamboo plants may be attacked by different diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">For this reason, the bamboo bushes should always be kept clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">If a certain bamboo is found to be infested by disease, then it should be uprooted and burned along with the motha or rhizome.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The bamboos of one to two years of age are usually cut of harvested.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">In the government forest department system, bamboos are harvested following specific methods at an interval of three years.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The murta or pati pata is an important raw material of cottage industries and it is an economic plant in rural areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Specially pati pata is cultivated extensively in the districts of Sylhet, Mymensingh, Tangail, Dhaka, Comilla, Feni, Noakhali and Chittangong.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">About seven lacs of people are dependent for their livelihood on the pati pata industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The murta plant usually grows to the height of 2-4 meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The skin of the murta stem is used in preparing Shital Pati (fine cool mal).</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Once paties or different materials are prepared from the secondary skin or internal stronger materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Marshy or moist lands are required for cultivation of murta or pati pata.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The slopes of ponds, sides of marshy basin (doba) and the places where water stagnantes during the rainy season are good for pati pata cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Usually rhizomes of murta are planted to its propagation.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Murta rhizomes are to be collected and planted in the months of May and June, in the prepared lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The murta produced from rhizome or motha may be suitable for harvesting within two years of planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The branches of murta may also be used as a propagator of murta cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">But yield of murta is reduced when stem's branches are planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Maturity period of stem murta may be delayed to three years.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">However, yield and maturity period of the subsequent crops in the same plot remain normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It has been found very beneficial when the base of the murta plants are spaded loosen the soil and earthing up is done every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Murta is harvested usually in the months of Chaitra and Baishakh.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Murta plants are cut or harvested with the help of sharp sickle or dao.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Murta is cut 2 to 7 cm above the soil in such a way that the ends of the stems are not squeezed or disturbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Murta is an economic crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">If scientifically cultivated, an amount of take twenty five thousand may be earned from a hectare of land of murta garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Cane is the most important raw material for cottage industries in rural Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Presently, the quantity of cane in forest and rural areas of the country is seriously decreasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The main reason for such reduction is that the rate of harvesting is higher than the rate of planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Besides, the places where canes were previously growing are being converted to other uses after clearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Other than the rural areas sufficient canes are also growing in the Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Chittagong and Chittagong Hill Tracts forest areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">There are 5-6 types of canes found to grow in Bangladesh, for examples Golla beth, Gali bet Bhutum beth, Bara beth, Lata beth, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">All these types of canes are used in making furniture and other household and handicraft materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Cane may be cultivated mainly in two ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">For example by motha or by seed.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Cane is cultivated in the rural areas of Bangladesh by motha.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">so many suckers produce from the base of cane plants in the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">These suckers after collecting from the mother plants may be planted in other places during rainy days, which develop to new plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Cane seeds may be collected from the cane fruits after ripening.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The cane seeds should be sown just after collection from the fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The cane fruits ripe during the month of Baishakh.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">If delayed in planting, the germination of cane seeds reduces to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Before sowing seeds, its juicy flesh should be clearly removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">This results in more successful germination of the seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The seeds at first to be sown in the seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">When two leaves emerge from the sees, then it should be transferred to poly bags.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Germination of cane seeds may take 3-12 weeks for complete germination.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The seedlings may be kept in poly bag for a period of about one year.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The seedlings are planted usually in the rainy season of the next year.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Primarily, the field of cane cultivation should be made free from weeds, Canes usually grow better in partial shady and moist soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">So, canes should not be planted in open high lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Cane when planted in association with big tree, then the cane plant gradually elimbs over the tree and grows naturally.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Shelters or climbing materials enhance the growth of canes.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Cane attains the maturity of harvesting in a period of 5-7 years after planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">However, every year a few of the canes may be harvested from a cane bush.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Cane is utilized in different ways in Bangladesh from the ancient time.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The main use is in preparing furniture and household materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Presently, due to the decrease in production of canes, the use of canes in household materials becoming rare.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">However, the importance and dignity of cane furniture and other materials are greatly increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Large number of cane furniture are being made and used in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The rural people of Bangladesh are familiar with the medicinal plants of the country from very long ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The leaves, barks, fruits, roots and vines of the medicinal plants are used as medicines from many years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">About 80 per cent people of Bangladesh live in the villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The modern health service facilities in villages are very limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">With this view, introductory information and the uses of some medicinal plants are discussed is this section.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Neem is a very popular tree of all over Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The number of branches of neem tree is fewer.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">The leaves are narrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">This plant is found to grow all over the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Seeds of neem tree should be collected in the months of June and July.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Seedlings of neem tree should be produced putting the seeds in the poly bags within a week of its harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">These seedlings may be planted in a place in the months of May and June next year.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Branches of neem tree when used as a tooth brush keep the teeth strong and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The leaf extracts of neem tree may be used as an insecticide for controlling insect pests of crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">There is a rural belief that branches and leaves of neem tree if hanged in a house, then no disease can enter into that house.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">According to this belief rural people plant neem nearby dwelling houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The leaf extracts of neem tree when eaten, it gives good result in controlling worms.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Besides, neem extracts are also found to be beneficial in the remedy of malaria, skin diseases and liver disorders.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The use of neem extracts as organic insecticide have sensitized people of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">This organic insecticide effectively destroys the harmful insect pests.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Neem wood is also very hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">This wood is used in preparing boats, house construction and making furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Neem is a big sized deciduous tree having large number of branches and foliage.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The tree may grow to a height of up to 35 meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The stem or log is round.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The colour of the bark is gray-ash with thread like cracks on the surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The flowers of the neem is oval shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The wood is very hard but houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The extracts of the neem tree when eaten, it gives good result in controlling worms.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Besides, neem extracts are also found to be beneficial in the remedy of malaria, skin diseases and liver disorders.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The use of the neem extracts as organic insecticide have sensitized people of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Neem wood is also very hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">This wood is used in preparing boats, house construction and making furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Arjun is a deciduous plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The height of the tree may be 20-25 meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The bark is juicy and its surface is smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The colour of the timber is brown.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Wood is very hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The wood is widely used for making cart wheel, boat with equipments, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The value of the bark is also significant.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The extract of the bark is used for the remedy of dysentery.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Arjun plant grows well in moist soils.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">This tree is widely found to grow all over Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The plant may successfully be grown in road sides, embankments bank of pond, etc. in the rural areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The seeds of arjun plant mature in the months of February to April.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The ripened seeds may be preserved for about one year after collection and proper drying.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The seeds may directly be sown in poly bag allowing them in water for two days.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The seedling of about one year of age grown in poly bag is good for planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Ashok is a medium sized evergreen tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The number of branches are numerous in this plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The leaves are long and the colour is deep green.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The flowers of the Ashok are very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The colour of new leaves is bronze and are very soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The orange-red flowers bloom in infloresence in the months of February and March.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The fruits look like a country bean.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The matured seeds are to be collected from ripened fruits look like a country bean.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The matured seeds are to be collected from ripened fruits in the months of March of June.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The seeds should be sown in poly bag just after collection.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Ashok seeds can not be stored for a longer period.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The seeds usually germinate within 7-15 days of sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">A seedling of Ashok plant may attain a height of one metre in the first one year period.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Ashok tree is planted in the garden to increase its aesthetic or landscape beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">The bark of ashok tree may be used as medicine in powder form.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Dry flowers are used as medicine to cure dysentery.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Seeds are also used for the remedy of urinary diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">This wood is mainly used in making light furniture as well as fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Haritaki Haritaki is a medium sized deciduous tree, full of branches and foliage.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The stem of the haritaki plant is round.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The colour of the flower may be white or yellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The colour of the wood is deep purple.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The wood is medium strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Haritaki wood is mainly used in preparing furniture and agricultural implements.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Haritaki tree is found to grow naturally in Chittagong.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Cox's Bazar, Sylhet and Bhawal and Modhupur forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The seeds of haritaki should be collected in the months of December to February.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">After proper drying of the seeds these may be stored for about one year.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">The seeds may be sown just after collection or in the months of May and June in poly bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Seeds may also be sown directly in seed bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">But it is better to plant the seedling grown in poly bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Haritaki is one of the importanct trees in the group which is consist of three medicinal plants know as Trifala in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The other trees are namely Bohera and Amlaki.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">The pharmaceutical value of haritaki is many and diverse.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Dried and powdered haritaki fruits are eaten soaking with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Haritaki medicine shows rapid and excellent results in curing cough and asthma.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Besides, haritaki medicinal derivatives are also used in the remedy of constipation and piles.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Bohera is a big sized deciduous tree having large number of branches and foliage.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The tree may grow to a height of up to 35 meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">The stem is round.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The colour of the borak is gray- ash with thread like cracks on the surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The flowers of bohera is oval in shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">The wood is very hard but can not persist a longer period.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">However, bohera wood do not get rotten when it is in touch of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Bohera tree is found in most areas of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">It is found to grow naturally in Chittagong, Chittagong Hill Tracts, Cox's Bazar, Sylhet and Bhawal and Modhupur forest areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">The seeds of bohera should be collected in the months of November and December.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The seeds may be stored for about a year through proper drying just after collection.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Seedlings may be produced sowing seeds in poly bags in the months of January to March.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The seeds should be moistened as follows before sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The seeds are germinated within a period of 10-20 days after sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">It is better to plant seedlings of two years age grown in poly bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">However, seeds may also be sown directly in the seed bed or stamps may also be prepared and planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Bohera is a popular and useful plant of the Trifala group of medicinal planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Bohera is a plant of high pharmaceutical value.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Use of bohera juice derivatives shows excellent results when it is used for the remedy of asthma, constipation, piles and liver diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Amlaki is a small to medium sized plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">The leaves are compound and small.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">The flowers are small and pinkish green in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The colour of the fruit varies from light green to yellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">The fruits are round in shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">There are six number of seeds normally found in each fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Amlaki is found to grow in all the forest and rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">The seeds of amlaki should be collected in the months of November to January.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">The fruits may be collected both from the tree or from the bottom of the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">The fruits after collection when kept in water for 7-8 days, the flesh of the fruit get rotten.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Then the seeds are separated squeezing the fruits by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Seeds are sown in poly bags in the months of March and April for producing seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Seeds are germinated within a period of 10-20 days after sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">It is better to plant amlaki seedling when is two years.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Amalaki is one of the important medicinal trees of Trifala.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Amlaki contains sufficient quantities of vitamin C. The leaves and fruits contain tamin.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">The leaf extract may be used for colouring silk clothes making it brown.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The fruits of amlaki are used in preparing writing ink, shampoo and hair dyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">About 25 per cent of total area of a country should consist maintain of forest land to keep balance in the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">But this is absent in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">The population is much higher than the area of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">the per capita land available in Bangladesh is only 0.12 hectare.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">There is no other country in the world which has such a low per capita area of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Bangladesh is an agricultural country.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">The forest materials are also required for livelihood along with agricultural products.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">In addition, forest plantations are essential for maintaining the balance of environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">But the forest area in Bangladesh is lower as compared to actual requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">It is not possible to convert crop lands to forest lands due to public demand of food self sufficiency of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Homestead should be made full of trees, along with banks of ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Then the demands of timber wood will be met to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">This will help in maintaining the balance of the natural environment reducing soil erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Plantations may be done on the sides of roads and highways and embankments in a single row, in some places double rows or three rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">The land of arhar planting soil should be hold lightly and all the weeds should be uprooted and cleared.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Then the arhar seeds are to be sown and covered with crushed soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">The seedlings of trees should be planted 30 cm apart from the arhar line on the slope of the roads and embankments.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">The seedlings should be planted at a distance of two meters paralled to the arhar line.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">For planting seedlings pits should be prepared 30 days before the planting.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The size of the pits should be 30 cm in length, 30 cm in width and 30 cm in depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">While making the pits, the upper soil and lower soil of the pits should be kept separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">The following fertilizers should be mixed with upper pit soil at least seven days before planting the seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">The upper pit soil mixed with the fertilizers should be given first in the pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Then the lower pit soil should be given on the upper protion of the pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">The seedlings should be planted when monsoon rain starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">A dhaincha line may be sown 30 cm away from the seedling line, but in parallel positon.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The soil of the land for dhaincha sowing should be hoed lightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">If sufficient place is available, plantations may be made in two or more rows on the sides of roads and embankments.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">In those cases the second line of tree seedlings should be planted 1.5 - 2.5 meters away from the first line but in parallel position.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">If more space is available then the third row may be given in the same way maintaining same distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Forest species which can tolerate water logging should be planted the roads or embankments where there is possibility of submergence in the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">The plants that can tolerate water logging mainly include sissu, mehgani, rain tree, babla, hijal pitali and kadam.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">If there is any possibility of seedlings falling down, then the seedlings should be supported with a strong pole or stick placed along the stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">The base of the seedlings should be cleared after one to one and a half months of the planting during the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The planting design of seedlings at the side of the roads and embankments is given here.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">The meaning of agro forestry is the cultivation of agricultural crops in association with the growing of multipurpose trees in the same land.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">In agro forestry method, one piece of land is cultivated in such a system that the maximum productive use of the land is achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Simultaneous production of crop, tree, food and livestock food is ensured by this system of farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Vegetable farming may be done along with the homestead forestry in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Production of agricultural crops are being done under big and small trees, within the same garden from the ancient time.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Simultaneous production of crops, vegetables and fruits are not the new things.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">People from the time immemorial are familiar with such an integrated system of farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">History of the cultivation of agricultural crops in the forest land while establishing forests is also known from the ancient time.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Cultivation of agricultural crops in association with trees in forest areas is known as Tangya System.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">In this system, all the practices of producing agricultural crops and forests are done simultaneously in the same land and at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">However, all the works are required to be done through plan and programmes.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The population of Bangladesh is higher in comparison to the area of cultivable land.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The demand for agricultural products and forest products are increasing due to the higher rate of population increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">It is becoming impossible to meet up the demand of increasing population from the limited area of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">In this circumstances, we shall have to follow those practices which can ensure most effective use of the available limited land.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Agro forestry can increase the productivity of the land maintaining the soil fertility.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">So agro forestry is an unique farming system and is of very much importance in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">A plant having the following characteristics may suitably be selected as a tree for use in agro forestry.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Rapidly growing trees having the capacity of producing large quantities of timber wood, fuel wood, and livestock food.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">For example, ipil ipil, sissu, koroi, eucalyptus, etc. Plants which can fix atmospheric nitrogen in their root nodules.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">For example, ipil ipil, koroi, sissu, bable, etc. Plants with less of foliage spread (width).</sent>
				<sent id ="369">The stem and branch leaves are smaller in size and number.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">For example, plamyra palm, date palm, etc. Plants that produce roots having less competitiveness with the nutrients of main field crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">For example plamyra palm and other deep rooted trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Plants having excessive dropping of leaves and which (leaves) are rapidly decomposed in soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">For example, mander and other legume trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Plants which rapidly grow when pruned producing sufficient secondary foliage.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">For example ipil ipil, koroi, hijal, mander and sissu.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">As we have very limited agricultural land per capita, so we should learn the systems or growing more crops in a small area of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Agro forestry is such an important system.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Agro forestry can ensure a permanent high productivity of available lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">There are many systems or models of agro forestry.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Any one of those systems may be practiced in accordance with the nature of land and local demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">A number of agro forestry systems are described here briefly.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">The term agro-sylviculture means the integrated culture of agricultural crops and trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">In this agro forestry system agricultural crops and trees may be grown simultaneously in an integrated system in the same piece of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">The system results in increased total production and protection of soil fertility.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">In the Sylvi-pastoral System livestock rood (grass and grain) are cultivated along with tree culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Thus, the total productivity of the land increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">The fertility level of the soil increases too.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">In the sylvi-horticultural system fruit trees, fruits and vegetables are produced in association with forest tree species.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Through the scientific utilization of this integrated method, the maximum productivity of the land and soil is achieved.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
