<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-agri-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.567</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">586</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">9040</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1794</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t82">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Besides fish, there are also many other vertebrate and invertebrate animals that live in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Among these animals, many of them are consumed as food like fish and also used for some other purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">For example, the whale and the dolphin though live in water are not considered as fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">These are higher level mammals than the marine fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The shrimps and crabs are also not included in the fish class.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">These are invertebrate animals of lower level than the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Shrimps are the most important resource of many countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Eighty per cent of the foreign currency earned by Bangladesh through the export of fish and fish products is contributed by shrimps alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Most of the marine plant weeds are used by the fish as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">However, some water weeds create hazards in fish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">There are about 260 species of local fish and 12 exotic species of fish living in the sweet water of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">About 475 species of fishes are available in the Bay of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The fish of our country may be categorized into three groups, according to the origin and nature of habitat.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The inland water fishes may again be classified into two groups, such as open water fish and stagnant water fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The Bay of Bengal is situated at the southern part of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">There is a great treasure of fishes of various species and shrimps found in the Bay of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The fishes living in the saline water of Bay of Bengal are known as marine fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">For example, Rupchanda, Churi, Bele, Datina, Hilsha, Rita, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The marine fishes contain sufficient quantities of iodine and vitamin A.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Usually the marine fishes are not cultivated in an organized way.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The marine water area of Bangladesh is about 1,66,000 square kilometers.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The contribution of marine fishes to the total fish production of the country is about 20 per cent.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The water of the estuary, river curve and the coastal belt of the Bay of Bengal is semi saline in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The fishes available in these areas are known as coastal fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">For example Koral, Poa, Laitya, Bhetki, etc. Presently fishes and shrimps are being cultured in the coastal area.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The rivers, canals, beels and flood plain areas of Bangladesh are included in the open water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">While tanks and ponds are considered as stagnant water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The Water of the inland water is sweet in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Fishes are not usually cultivated in the open water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The fishes growing in the open water bodies are known as open water fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">For example Ruhi, Katla, Pangus, Aeir, Gazer, Shol, Boal, Koi, Shing, Magur, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The area of inland water bodies in about 40 lacs and 47 thousand 316 hectares.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">More than 41 per cent of country's fish production in coming from this inland water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Tanks, ponds, ditches, etc. are mainly classed into stagnant water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Fishes are produced through culture in these water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The fish species which are cultured in tank, ditches and ponds are known as stagnant water body fishes or stangnant water fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">For example, Ruhi, Katla, Mrigel, Kalibush, Rajputi, Silver carp, Grass carp, Mirror carp, Tilapia, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">There are about 13 lacs of such ponds where these types of fishes may be cultivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">About 25 per cent of the total fish production of the country is contributed by the stagnant water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">There are about 24 sweet water species and 36 saline water species of shrimps found to grow in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">But all these types are not suitable for cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Galda shrimp is cultivated in the sweet water and Bagda shrimp is cultivated in the saline water.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Galda shrimp is the biggest size of the shrimps available in the sweet water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Galda shrimp may be cultivated singly or in combination with Ruhi and Katla in the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The cultivation methods of Galda shrimp as monoculture is described below .</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The selection of the pond in one of the important points of Galda shrimp cultvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Adequate amount of oxygen supply is required for shrimp culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The oxygen content of pond water may be increased by changing the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">For this reason, ponds for shrimp culture should be selected which are situated near the rivers, canals, beels, haors, fountains or deep and shallow tubewells.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Ponds having the loam and clay loam textured soils have been found to be more suitable for shrimp culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The water depth of the pond is good when it is within 1-1.5 meters.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">There should not be any big tree on the bank of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">At first the voracious and unwanted fishes should be removed through drying the pond or applying chemical poison of fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">One kilogram of lime per decimal of pond water area should be applied after removing the voracious fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The fertilizers should be applied after five days of applying the lime.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">About 100 shrimp fries may be released per decimal of pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Natural foods are created in the pond when fertilizers are applied in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">For this purpose, fertilizers should be applied to pond water at an interval of seven days after stocking fries in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The food naturally produced in a pond after application of the fertilizers are not sufficient for full nutrition of the shrimp.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">That is why supplementary foods are required to be given to the pond regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Shrimp culture is mostly dependent on the nutrition from the supplementary food.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Rice bran, wheat bran, mustard oil cake, powdered bry fish, snail shell crusts, salt and vitamins are mixed proportionately to prepare balanced food of shrimps.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Materials required for preparing one kilogram of food are mentioned in the table given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The per day food requirements for one thousand shrimps are also given in another table.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Shrimps usually take food in the evening or at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Much care should be taken so that fertilizers and supplementary foods applied in excess can not pollute the pond water by decomposition.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Occasional change of the pond water ensures rapid growth of the shrimps.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The shrimps become very week while molting.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Shrimps may be ready for sale in the market within 6-7 months provided optimum cultural practices are followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The weight of a marketable size of shrimp is about 80 grams, when these are harvested and sold in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The Shells of shrimps are found to be strong during full moon or in dark nights.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">So, this is the best time for harvesting shrimp.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">When cultured scientifically as mentioned in this section, the production of Galda Shrimp may be 8-10 kg per decimal of pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The area is spread over from Satkhira of Khulna division to Cox's Bazar of Chittagong division.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The bigger sized water bodies are divided into smaller size water bodies covering 4-5 acres each by giving ails or banks.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Such water bodies prepared in the saline water for the cultivation of shrimps are known as Ghers.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Bagda shrimps are cultivated within the Ghers.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The depth of water in Ghers is maintained at 0.5-1.0</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Arrangements are made for changing water and controlling water salinity allowing entrance and drainage of tidal saling water.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Trap nets with small holes may be set at the mouths of the Gher for the purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Salinity of the Gher water should be controlled within the range of 10-30 ppt (parts per thousand).</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Usually, Bagda shrimp fries are released or accumulated in the months of Magh and Falgun.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">About 200 Bagda shrimp fries may be released per decimal of the Gher area.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">If properly cultured 8-10 km of Bagda shrimp may be produced per decimal of the Gher in a period of 7- 8 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The principal natural source of our fish production is the open water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The rivers, canals, beels, Kaptai Lake and flood plain area of Bangladesh are included in the inland water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Fish is not usually cultivated in open water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The naturally grown fishes are harvested from these water bodies and such harvest comprises the natural fish resources of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">About 50 per cent of the country's fish production comes from the open water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The production of fish from these sources is getting reduced due to different reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The main causes for which the open water body fishes are getting reduced may be grouped into two classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Like all other animals, fish also requires a favourable marine environment for their normal life processes and reproduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Because, the only media for fish life is water.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The conditions of rivers and canals of Bangladesh are changing day by day due to its geographical position and the imbalance in the environmental situations.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">As a result usual water streams of the rivers and canals including the Padma are reducing by raising charlands.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Rivers are being inactivated and also changing their course of flow.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Such affected rivers are becoming unsuitable for habitation of fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">There are so many beels and haors which have already been filled up due to silting.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">All these factors in combination are causing reducation of the area of total open water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Besides, unfavourable reactions are gradually occuring due to deforestation and desertification processes intensively.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Untolerable droughts, untimely and excessive rainfall and hazardous floods are being experienced every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">All these phenomena influencing the life processes of fish negatively are causes of different problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">As a result the fish production from the natural open water sources is getting seriously reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Bangladesh is a densely populated country.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The major causes among them are : Drying up of beels and jheels due to irrigation of water for the producation of more food crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Reduction of water bodies due to its conversion to crop fields through land filling.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Indiscriminate use of insecticides for high yield of rice production hampering the normal life processes, reproduction and breeding and destroying natural food of fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The occurance of disease and death of fishes due to the deposition of toxic industrial wastes in the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Disturbing the natural habitat and movement of fishes due to the making of unplanned roads and embankments.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Indiscriminate harvest of fish fries and mass harvest of female fishes carrying eggs in the breeding season.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Use of Prohibited nets and harvest of young nala and jatka fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Harvest of fishes from the rives and canals at untolerable rates.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Reduction of water bodies due to siltation and soil erosion resulting from the deforestation activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Reduction in water stream due to the cross embankments made in the upper stream of international rivers flowing through Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The importance of fish resources is enormous in fulfilling the demand of the mass people, creating employment opportunities and earning valuable foreign currencies.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">In this context, it is very important to strengthen fisheries and fish conservation acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Establishment of fish shelters, releasing fish fries in open water sources and through simultaneous prevention of fish resources destruction activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Under this programme Department of Fisheries started releasing fish fries in the selected open water bodies since Meanwhile the programme showed positive results.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">An amount of 200-250 kg additional fish have already been produced per hectare of the open water body.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">However, the general people of the country should perform more duties and responsibilities in order to run the programme more successfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Goals and objectives of a programme may be achieved through mass awareness and direct participation of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Public awareness may be strengthened against catching of fish before they are fully grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The Ruhi fish below 23 cm length size is known as Nala fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The small Hilsha of the same size is known as Jatka.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">According to the fish conservation act of Bangladesh, harvesting of the Nala and Jatka fish is punishable crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It is possible to produce tons of fishes if the immature fishing of the Nala fish and Jatka fish could be stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">So, the mass people should abide by the Fish Conservation Act strictly.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Fishing in the Avoyasram is strictly prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The mass people should keep away themselves from fishing in the Avoyasram in order to ensure natural fish breeding and to maintain fish species diversity.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The fishing community should be organized in the modern method of cooperatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">They should be made understand that the open water body is their own resource.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">So fishing of under sized fishes will cause them to incur a great loss to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">If these small fishes are allowed to grow better then they themselves will be economically benefited.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Bangladesh is rich in water resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">There are innumerable water bodies in the country including doba, nala, tanks, ponds, beels, haors, rivers and canals.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The environmental nature of the water bodies are of different types.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">So, methods of cultivation of fishes in these various types of water bodies are also different.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Different methods of fish cultivation are described here.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Basically, fish cultivation in our country means fish culture in the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">There are about 13 lacs of tanks and ponds in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Among them some may have water throughout the year and some may have water for few months of the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The ponds which contain substantial amount of water throughout the year is known as permanent ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">All fish cannot be cultivated in all types of ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Rajputi, Nilotica, Shing, Magur, etc. may be cultivated in small and seasonal ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Galda shrimps may also be cultivated in seasonal and small ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Comparatively larger sized permanent ponds are more suitable for the cultivation of Ruhi, Katla, Mrigel, Silver carp, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Moreover all the ponds are required to be prepared before cultivation of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">For this purpose, the pond is to be cleared from voracious fishes and other unwanted aquatic animals by drying the pond or using chemical poisons.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">After that measured amount of lime should be applied in the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Fertilizers should be applied in the pond water after about five days of lime application.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The natural food for fishes are produced in the pond after 5-7 days of fertilizer application.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">At this time correct fish species in correct proportions are to be released in the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Fertilizers are required to be applied in the pond water regularly in order to ensure the continuous supply of natural food.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The fertilizer should be applied up to the harvest time of the fishes in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Supplementary foods also to be given along with fertilizer application for getting higher production from the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Netting in the pond is occassionally necessary to check the health and growth rates of the fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Culturing fish in the cage system in our country is a new system.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">In the water bodies where fish cultivation is not normally possible they may be cultivated by using the cage system.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The cage may be prepared for fish culture by bamboo sticks, wood frame and nylon nets.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It is better to use the cage which is five meters in length, three meters in width and two meters in depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The holes of the boundary net, hedge and other nets used in the cage should not exceed 0.5 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">If it is fully prepared then the four corners of the net under water should be tied with four bamboo poles.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The fish species to be cultivated in cage should be such so that they grow rapidly and takes all types of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The fish suitable for cultivation in cage system are, namely Ruhi, Katla, Mrigel, Rajputi, Shing, Magur, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The optimum size of fish fries to be released in the cage should be 8-10 cm in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The rate for fry release may be several times higher which is required in case of the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">An average rate of fish fry release in cage culture is eight fries per cubic meter of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The fish cultivation cages are set usually in flowing water streams and open water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">For this reason application of fertilizers for enhancing growth to natural food materials will have no effect.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">So, balanced food should be directly given to the net cage every day in specific amount.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">After one month, food may be supplied at the rate of four per cent of the estimated stock fish weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The total amount of calculated food may be applied at two times.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">First half in the morning and second half in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The fish cultured in net cage may grow rapidly and attain the marketable size within 5-6 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">In this way, fish production in the country may rapidly be increased ensuring the use of open water body based net cage fish culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The number of ponds and ditch, etc. are few in cities and towns.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Moreover, on sufficient land is not available for new ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">In this circumstances, fish culture in tanks may be encouraged in the urban areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The size of a tank may be 10-15 square meters having a depth of about one meter where small scale fish may be cultivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">These fishes may be suitable for cultivation in tanks which have higher growth rate, eat supplemental food and can tolerate some unfavourable environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">According to the criteria mentioned above African Magur, Nilotika, Rajputi, Shing and Magur are the most suitable for cultivation in the tanks.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">As in net cage, more number of fish may be stocked in tanks.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The cultivation of fish is solely dependent on the application of supplemental food in the tank.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">In a tank 5-10 fish fries may be stocked per cubic meter.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">In this case supplemental food may be given to the tank calculating both the quality and quantity of the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">If the food supply becomes deficit, then the growth of the fish get stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">On the other hand, if the food supply is higher than the number of fishes, may die.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">They polluting the tank water.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">So, of excess found care should be taken to observe whether the fishes are taking food or not and food is becoming deficit or excess.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The water in the tank should be occasionally changed to maintain the quality of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">This operation increases the oxygen content of the water and ensures rapid growth of the stock of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Rice is our principal crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Rice is cultivated in about 75 per cent of the total agricultural land of the country throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Fish may be cultivated in medium low land and low land soils having ridge (ail) of earth around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Cultivation of fish in rice field increases the yield of rice and additional income from the fishes obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The fishes like Rajputi, Nilotika, Common carp, shrimps, etc. may be cultured in rice fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Grass carp should not be reared in rice field, because it may eat and destroy the rice seedlings.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Fish fries should be released in the rice field after 15-20 days of transplantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The depth of the drain should be 50 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The fish stays and moves in the drain and in the rice fields and take their food.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">When the water layer of the rice field reduces, then the fish takes shelter in the drains.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The fish may be harvested from the drains in due time.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">There is no need for applying insecticides when fish is cultured in rice field.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Occassionally cowdung may be applied in the field as fertilizer.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">There are many diversified sources of food for fish in rice fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">In case of the need for rapid growth of the fish, some rice bran may be applied in the field from time to time.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The following additional advantages may be obtained while culturing fish in rice fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Fish is harvested as an additional crop from the same piece of land along with rice production.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Fish helps in controlling weeds in rice field.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Fish eats many types of insect pests which are destructive to rice field.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Excreta of fish is useful as fertilizer for rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">As a result, yield of rice increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Poultry and ducks are reared in most of the rural houses of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Preparing a house above the pond water level or on the bank of the pond, fish can easily be cultivated in such an integrated system.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The following spaces are required for rearing poultry in the house to be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The poultry house should be made at least one meter apart from the bank of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The distance between the top of the roof and the floor should be 1.25-1.50</sent>
				<sent id ="218">It is better to prepare the poultry house with sun grass or rice straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The Ponds are to be prepared before fish fry stocking in case of integrated fish culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The process of preparing the pond is like general fish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Ruhi fish fries may be stocked in per bigha pond from 1000-1200 numbers.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The size of the fries should be 8-10 cm in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">In case of poultry birds, 75 fowls or 60 ducks may be reared per bigha pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">No fertilizer is required to be applied in fish poultry integrated system farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The excreta of the poultry birds acts as a good quality fertilizer for the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Moreover, many fishes take some part of the excreta directly as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Supplementary foods are not applied in integrated fish poultry farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">As the house is prepared above the pond water, some of the food and food wastes directly fall into the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Fish takes these wastes as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">So additional fertilizer or supplemental food are not required to be applied and no additional money is spent in this respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">More production is achieved with less expenditure in integrated fish farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The coastal saline water bodies of 4-5 acre size (one acre equal to 1200 square meters) are known as Ghers.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Usually Bagda shrimp is cultivated in coastal Ghers.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Before stocking shrimp fries, the Gher must be dried and prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Shrimp cultivation in Gher increases fertility.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The voracious and other destructive and unwanted animals are eradicated.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Under dry condition, lime is to be applied at the rate of one kg per decimal of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">After five days of lime application cowdung 7 kg, urea 75 grams, triple super phosphate 50 grams should be applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The natural food for fish grows in the Gher within 5 to 7 days after fertilizer application.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">At this stage the Gher will be considered as ready for shrimp stocking.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Normally, shrimps are released in the Gher in the months of Magh and Falgun.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The number of shrimp fries may be released are 100-200 per decimal of the Gher.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">After stocking fertilizers should be applied regularly to encourage the growth of natural food.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Organic manures should be preferably given to the shrimp Ghers.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">About one kg of cowdung may be applied mixing it with water per week per decimal of the Ghers.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Supplementary food also should be supplied in the Gher along with fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">There should be sluice gate in Gher for changing water.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Shrimps usually take food at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">For this reason, supplemental food should be given in Gher in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">If foods are applied in the forenoon it may be lost and sometimes pollute the water undergoing decomposition.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">If the food is prepared in the form of pellet then it can be easily taken up by the shrimps.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">The water of the Ghers should be changed in order to maintain the quality, salinity and environment of the Gher.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Shrimps may attain the marketable size after 7-8 months of stocking when cultured properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The production of shrimp is usually 8-10 kg per decimal of crop per season.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Ruhi, Katla, Mrigel, etc. are the indigenous fishes of the carp group.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The Silver carp, Grass carp, Common carp, etc. are the exotic fishes of the carp group.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">When Galda shrimp is monocultured, then the natural food of the upper layer and middle layer remains unused.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">If Ruhi and Katla are cultivated in mixed culture with Galda shrimp, then the food of all the layers of the ponds are equally utilized.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">This results in more production of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Mixed cultivation of Ruhi and Galda shrimp in pounds give maximum economic prfit per unit area of pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The mixed culture method of Galda shrimp and Ruhi is briefly described here.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Appropriate ponds should be selected for the mixed culture of Galda shrimp and carp fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">The selected pond should be such that it contains 1-15 meter depth water at least for six months of the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">A pond of 20-50 decimal is better for such a mixed fish culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The ponds having loam, clay loam and sandy loam textured soils are better for the purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The voracious and unwanted fishes and other animals should be removed from the pond at the first stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">The objective may be achieved by drying the pond or using chemical materials which is poisonous to fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">However, complete drying of the pond is comparatively better.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">After the eradication of the voracious fishes, lime should be applied in the pond at the rate of one kg per decimal of pond area.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">The fertilizers to be applied 8-9 days after the allpication of lime.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The shrimp fries should be stocked in pond when it attain the size of 4-8 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">The fries of Galda shrimp may be found naturally in rivers and coastal areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Recently several shrimp hatcheries have been established in the southern area of Bangladesh which mainly produce Galda shrimps.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">From these sources Galda shrimp fries may be collected.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">As like Ruhi fish fries the Galda shrmp fries can not be transported putting them only in polyethylene bags.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">The Galda shrimp fries makes holes in the poly bag through their sharp rostrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">For this reason the shrimps are first to be put in a plastic net bag having small holes.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Then a number of such small bags are to be put in a bigger size polyethylene bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Shrimp stays and lives at the bottom layer of the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The carp fries should be released after 5-7 days of stocking of the shrimp fries.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">The natural food is produced in the pond by applying fertilizer to the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">The growth of fish becomes satisfactory if supplemental food are applied along with fertilizer application.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">The food should be applied to the pond water at the rate of 3-4 per cent of the stock weight every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">The carp fishes take food at day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">But shrimps take their food at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">For this reason, supplemental food for carps should be applied in the morning while shrimp food should be given in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">These food should be given in tray or earthen plate and left hanging at the bottom of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The Galda shrimp takes these food with the help of a forcep like organ of the long legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">So, the food of shrimp is better if it is given in a pellet form or in nodule form.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Snail flesh cutting into small pieces may be applied in the pond in order to enhance the growth of shrimps.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The shrimps change their shells or they molt at different stages of growth cycle.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Sometimes a green colour layer may be created on the surface of the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">This type of green layers are harmful for shrimps.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">If green algae bloom become dense then fertilizer application may be stopped temporarily and thus the pond may be protected from such pollutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The fishes and shrimps may be suitable for marketing after 6-7 months of stocking.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">So, the big sized fishes and shrimps may be harvested by netting after 6-7 months of proper culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">As a result, the small fishes and shrimps will get a chance of getting bigger.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">If properly cultured, 12-14 kg of fishes and 3-4 kg shrimps may be produced per decimal of land in a season.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">If there is any pond in your school, then select it for cultivation of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">If there is no pond, then select another pond nearby the school with the help of class teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Eradicate the voracious and other unwanted fishes and animal drying the pond by applying poisonous chemicals if it is of perennial in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Shol, Boal, Taki, etc. are the voracious type of fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">The smaller fishes other than the stocked species are the unwanted fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">The appropriate time for drying the pond is the months of Falgun and Chaitra.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Reconstruct the bank of the pond if there is any breach on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">The fish fries may be stocked after 15 days if fishes are killed by medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Measure the length and width of the pond and calculate the total area of the pond and pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Apply lime on the basis of that calculation.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Apply organic and inorganic fertilizers after 8-10 days of lime application.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Lime should be applied after 7-10 days of drying the pond or killing the fishes by chemicals.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Test the natural food growth in the water after 5-7 days of fertilizer application.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The water may be teasted by dipping the hand up to the elbow.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">At this stage, the fish fries may be stocked.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Organic manure and inorganic fertilizer may be applied in the pond regularly after stocking the fish fries.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">The fertilizers other than urea should be dissolved in water in a pot over night.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Next day morning mix the urea with the dissolved fertilizers and broadcast on the surface of the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Apply supplemental food every day to the pond at the rate of 3-4 per cent of the stock weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Determine the average weight of fish by harvesting 20-25 fishes of different species by netting.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">From this average weight calculate the weight of the total number of fish fries stocked.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">If the total weight of fish in found to be 100 kg then 3-4 kg food should be applied every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Test the fish whether it is taking the supplied food or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">The quantity of food should be increased or decreased accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The amount of fertilizers and supplemental food should be reduced to some extent during the winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Calculate the cost and economic benefit of fish pond at the end of the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Mind that cultivation of fish in a pond is the sum of different technical, cultural and management activities throughout the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">So, in order to get satisfactory yields, the daily and monthly activities should be performed in right way and in right time.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Ruhi, Katla, Mrigel, Kalbaus, Ghania, Sarputi, etc. are commonly grouped into carp fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">A number of carp fishes have been imported from foreign countries for cultivation in ponds of our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">For example, Silver carp, Gras carp, Big head carp, Common carp and Rajputi.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">These fish species have been found to be very suitable for cultivation in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">These carps live in different layers of the pond and take food from different depths of the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Carp fishes usually do not compete with food of fishes staying and living at different layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Thus when the indigenous and exotic carps are cultivated in a mixed population then more economic benefit may be obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Cutivation of fish includes production of more fishes through improved technologies and managements than the fishes usually grown under natural condition in a water body.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">The mixed culture of fishes may be defined as the simultaneous cultivation of different species of fish in the same pond at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">The potential food supplying capacity of different layers of a pond are comparatively fully utilized by the mixed culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">As a result higher production is achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">The method of mixed cultivation of fishes are described in this section briefly.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The size of the pond suitable for carp fish cultivation should be between 1200-4000 square meters (one acre).</sent>
				<sent id ="340">The bank of the pond should be raised in such a way that it is not flooded during rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">The pond should be situated in such a place that it can receive optimum sunshine during day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">The depth of water controls the quality of pond water in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">If the depth of the pond water is more, then the sun rays can not reach the bottom of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Such a situation causes deterioration of the quality of water and natural foods do not grow in the lower layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">It hampers the normal life process of the fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">So, the depth of pond water should be minimum 1.2 meters in dry season and maximum 2.5 meters in the rainy season.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The ponds situated in the area where the soil texture is clay red soils, the water of those ponds are usually turbid.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">The sunshine can not enter to a deep layer when the water becomes turbid.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">This results in lower production of fish in such ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">The ponds having loamy textured soils are most suitable for fish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Carp fishes may attain the marketable size within one year of stocking.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">So, the ponds for permanent carp cultivation should be selected considering the important criteria mentioned above.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">The success of fish cultivation depends on the preparation of the pond in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">The following step-wise works should be performed while preparing of a pond for fish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">For this reason such ponds should be at first dried and the excess mud should be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">The bank of the pond should be reconstructed if there is any breach over there.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">The aquatic weeds of the pond should be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">If the pond is not dried, the weeds of the pond should be removed by using manual labours.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The voracious fishes may be controlled by using a chemical which is known as Rotenon.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">About 125 grams of Rotenon is required to be applied for one meter depth of per decimal pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">The voracious and unwanted small fishes may also be eradicated by frequent netting of the pond, if the water content of the pond is lower.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Application of lime : Application of lime is must for successful production of fish in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Lime purifies the pond water and also increases the fertility of the soil and water of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Usually lime is applied at the rate of one kg lime per decimal of pond (40 square meters).</sent>
				<sent id ="365">The measured amount of lime is first moistured with water and then cooled.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">The lime is uniformly broadeast in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Lime stones are found to be more effective than powdered ordinary lime.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">The rate of lime application may slightly be higher or lower according to the nature of the pond soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">About two kg of lime should be given in the ponds situated in the red soil area.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Application of fertilizers : The fertilizers should be applied after 8-10 days of lime application.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">The following fertilizers may be applied per decimal of pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">According to the size of the pond, measured amount of fertilizers should be moistened with water and then broadcast over the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Natural foods grow in the pond water after application of the fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">For testing, some amount of the pond water should be taken in a clear glass 4-5 days after fertilizer application.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Then the water of the glass should be seen against sun light.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Collection of fish fries : In most of the districts of Bangladesh there are government and private fish hatcheries.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Fries of different fishes are found in these hatcheries or nurseries.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">The death rate of smaller fries in higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Usually healthy fries of fishes measuring 8-12 cm should be stocked in the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">The fish fries are mainly available in the months from Baishakh to Kartic.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Healthy fish fry is a precondition to higher production.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">The size of different species of fish fries should be equal while stocking.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Transport of fish fries : The fish fries may be transported in polythyene bag, aluminium or earthen pots.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Short distance transport of fish fries may be done putting it in earthen or aluminum containers.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">For a long distant transport of fish fries, it may be carried in polyethylene bags with oxygen supply.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">The fish fry containers/bags should be kept in shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">While carried in container, the water of the container should be frequently shaken.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Otherwise the fish fries may die suffering from oxygen deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Arrangement should also be made so that temperature of the container water can not be higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Releasing fish fries : The fish fries brought from fish nurseries should not be directly released to the stocking pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">It may cause death of the fish fries due to the variation of temperature of the container water and the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">At first the fish fry polybag or the container should be floated over the pond water for about 15-20 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">At this time water of the pond should be given in the container in small lots.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">This operation will gradually equalize the temperature of the container water and the temperature of the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">The habitat for all fish species are also not the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">So if a single species of carp is stocked in a pond the higher production may not be obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Mixed culture of carp fishes is better for getting higher yields.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">The different fish species are required to be stocked in specific numbers.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Use of six species of carp in the mixed cultivation system results good harvest of fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">The numbers and proportions of carp species to be selected depend on the cultivation systems and available management facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">Under normal conditions 35 numbers of different carp species may be stocked per decimal of the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The total number of fish fries may be slightly increased if the supply of balanced food and improved management practices are ensured.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">The specifications of fish fry stocking according to water layer of the pond and type of fish species are given in the following picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Fertilizers are to be applied every day or every week after stocking fish fries in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Application of fertilizer is good for higher production if it is done every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Costs may also be reduced in this way of fertilizer application.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">The following fertilizers may be applied per day per decimal of the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">The fertilizers other than urea after should first be moistened in a pot for 12-15 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Next day the fertilizers should be mixed with the measured urea any applied to the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">The amount of fertilizers to be applied in a pond also depend on the transparency of the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">In a shiny day at noon time, if the palm is seen when dipped up to the elbow, then fertilizers should be applied regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">If the palm can not be seen, then fertilizer application rate should be reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">The fertilizers should be applied in the pond in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Only the natural food can not ensure satisfactory fish production.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">The full nutrition of the fish still can not be achieved by applying fertilizers which enhance natural food growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Supplemental food must be applied every day in the pond to ensure higher production.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">For the purpose 30-40 fishes may be caught from the pond and its average weight should be determined.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Thus the approximate total weight of the stocked fish is to be determined.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">The supplementary food will amount to 2-3 per cent of the fish stock weight of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Equal amounts of rice bran, wheat bran, mustard oil eake may be mixed to prepare the food of carp fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">The mustard oil cake to be used in the food should be kept moist in water for about 12 hours.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">The required and measured whole food may be divided into two parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">One part may be given in the morning and the rest portion should be given in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">The supplemental food should be applied at a particular time in a particular site of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">This has been found suitable for taking food by the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Many harmful gases may be formed in muds at the bottom of the ponds and pathogenic organisms in the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">The water of the ponds may be turbid in many cases.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">This type of pond and pond water are not suitable for fish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Such pond water may be reclaimed by the use of lime in appropriate method.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Lime reclaims the water of ponds, destroys the harmful insect pests and pathogenic microorganisms, removes poisonous gases from the bottom of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Lime should be applied in the pond in the months of October and November or 4-5 months after stocking of the fish fries.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">The rate of lime application is one kg per decimal of the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Methods of Keeping Hygienic Condition in the Pond Green algae are the natural food of fish in the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">But its excess growth is harmful for the cultivation of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">The excess growth of algae and its thick layer formation is known as bloom.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">The colour of the bloom may be green, blue green, brown or redish brown.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">These cause serious disturbance in the life process of the fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">The algae bloom may be grown in pond water due to excess use of urea and triple super phosphate.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Successful fish production needs appropriate control of such bloom in the water of the ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Copper sulphate at the rate of 35 grams for one meter average depth of per decimal pond may successfully be applied for eradicating algae bloom.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">The measured amount of copper sulphate should be dissolved in small amount of water and should be spread over the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Within 2-3 days of copper sulphate application the alga bloom will be removed and the water will be cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Besides alga blooms other aquatic weeds may create hazard in fish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Aquatic weeds hamper the entrance of sunshine and thus reduce the growth of natural foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Densely growing aquatic weeds give shelter to the voracious fishes and other harmful aquatic animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">The floating weeds in a pond may be cleaned manually by physical labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">If there is any submerged weeds, the stocking of Grass carp and Rajputi fishes help to control them by direct eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Muddy water of pond : Muddy or turbid water when present in a pond reduces fish production.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">The growth and production of natural food in turbid water is low and fish faces troubles to respire in turbid water.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">The turbidity of pond water may be reduced by applying alum in the pond in very small amount.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Oxygen is essential for all lives and life processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">The amount of oxygen released by algae and aquatic green plants during photosynthesis are dissolved in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Some amount of oxygen is also dissolved in water directly from the atmospheric air.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">The fishes and other aquatic plants and animals perform respiration by this dissoloved oygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">In absence of sunshine no oxygen is produced at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Morover oxygen is also utilized in the oxidative decomposition process of prganic materials at the bottom of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">For this reason, the oxygen content of pond water remains in its minimum level in the morning and becomes maximum in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">A sufficient oxygen content of pond water is a must for carrying the life processes or production activities in a pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">If the oxygen content of water goes below two milligrams per litre water, then Ruhi carps can not live in that water.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">An oxygen content of 5-8 milligrams per litre of water is ideal for fish production.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">content of the water should be increased by giving irrigation water to the affected pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">This will increase the photosynthetic rates of phytoplanktons.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">It also results in the reduction of carbon di-oxide and proportionately increases the concentration of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Oxygen deficiency may also be developed from the intensive decomposition of organic materials at the bottom of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">The range of oxygen content may be maintained by keeping aquatic environment neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">The acidity or alkalinity of pond is expressed by pH.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">If the pH of a water is 7.00 then its reaction is neutral.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">if the pH value is dropped below 7.00 then its acidity accordingly starts to increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">If the pH of a water starts rising from 7.00 then it indicates that the alkalinity of the water is incereasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">A pH range from 6.5-8.5 is suitable for the growth of natural food in pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Continuous application of chemical fertilizers causes the increase of acidity or decrease of alkalinity of the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">On the other hand, the acidity of water may also increase with the rapidity of organic matter decomposition.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">Application of lime in appropriate amount decreases the acidity of pond water and thus the alkalinity reaches the expected favourable range.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">For this reason lime should be applied in pond at the rate of one kg per decimal of pond at an interval of 4-5 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Thus the acidity or alkalinity of the Continuous application of chemical fertilizers causes the increase of acidity or decrease of alkalinity of the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">On the other hand, the acidity of water may also increase with the rapidity of organic matter decomposition.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Application of lime in appropriate amount decreases the acidity of pond water and thus the alkalinity reaches the expected favourable range.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">For this reason lime should be applied in pond at the rate of one kg per decimal of pond at an interval of 4-5 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">Thus the acidity or alkalinity of the pond water may be maintained by keeping the environment of the pond neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">The growth rate, health, presence of diseases, etc. of the fishes of the pond should be observed by netting at least once a month.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">The main characteristics of a healthy stout fish are mentioned below : The body of the fish is strong and stout.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">The size of the head and the body is proportionate.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">The colour of the body is naturally bright.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">Some slippery materials will remain on the surface of body of the fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">There will be no symptom of ulcers or infectious spots on the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">The fins of the fish will appear normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">If there is any deviation of the normal symptoms mentioned above, it is to be understood that some disturbances have occurred.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">If necrotic spots are seen on the body of the fishes then lime should be applied in the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">If necrotic spots are seen on the body of the fishes then lime should be applied in the pond water.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">If the growth rate of fishes found to be lower then the quantity of supplementary food should be increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">The fishes caught to test the presence of diseases should be again released to the pond water after soaking it in potassium permanganate solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">Harvesting of fish in the right time is an important technique of getting higher yield from fish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">The carp fishes usually grow very rapidly up to one year of age.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">After that, its growth rate comparatively reduces though food in take increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">For this reason, it is very important to harvest the pond fishes at the right time.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Ruhi and Mirgel fishes may grow up to 700 grams to one kg in a period of 8-12 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">Silver carp, Katla, Grass carp may attain a weight of 1-1.5 kg in a poriod of 6-7 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">The weight of Rajputi may reach 150-200 grams in a period of 4-5 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">The weight range of the carp fishes as mentioned above have both higher demand and atractive prices in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Thus the bigger sized fishes of the pond should be harvested and marketed after 6-7 months of fish fry stocking.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">At the same time equal number of fish fish fries of those harvested species should be stocked in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">These practices help to get more production from a pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">If fish cultivation methods mentioned above are followed, 25-30 kg of carp fishes may be produced per decimal of pond in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">If more improved and intersive cultural practices in fish cultivation is followed then it is possible to get more and more yield.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">Fish is perishable item.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">Rottening of fish starts just after its harvest, that is when the fishes are taken out of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">The rottening process is more rapid in the summer season.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">The fishes remain fresh if ice is given on the body of the fish after its harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Both the demand and price of fresh fishes are higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">In places where ice is not available, the times of harvest and market sale should be adjusted in such a manner Fish is perishable item.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">Rottening of fish starts just after its harvest, that is when the fishes are taken out of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">The rottening process is more rapid in the summer season.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">The fishes remain fresh if ice is given on the body of the fish after its harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">Both the demand and price of fresh fishes are higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">This ensures the maintenance of quality and higher prices from fish sales.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">Every life is known to be attacked by some diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">Fish is not an exception to this phenomena.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">Occurrence of diseases is a major problem in fish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">The qualities of water and soils of water bodies deteriorate due to many reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">It results in the hampering of the normal environment of water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">Deterioration of the quality of water body environment seriously hampers the normal life of fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">But such an environment is very favourable for the growth and activity of pathogenic microorganisms and parasites.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">Under unfavourable environment the fishes are infested by pathogens and parasites as a result of fish-pathozen opposite reactions and relations.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">This causes diseases to fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">In order to identify a diseased fish, the normal characters of a fish should be known at first.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">A normal healthy fish has a proportionate head and body characteristic.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">The colour of the body is bright, slippery and the fins of the fishes seem to be normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">The external symptoms, spread of diseases, prevention and remedial measures of major diseases of fishes are briefly described here.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">Gill rot disease of fish is a fungal disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">The name of the fungus is Bronchyomysis.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">The fungus enters into the gill of the fish and stops the blood circulation within the gill.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">As a result the oxygen supply in the organ's external part is stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">Symptoms of the disease : Rottening starts in the gill and the infected place gradually detached and break down.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">The affected fish can not perform normal respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">As a result, the fish finally dies due to lack of respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">Prevention of the disease : The disease may be prevented by the following cultural practices :</sent>
				<sent id ="537">The excess mud present at the bottom of the pond should be removed while preparing the pond for fish cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Organic matter should not be allowed to accumulate in the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">Sufficient amount of lime should be applied during preparation of the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">Remedies of the disease : Following remedial measures should be adopted to control the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">Changing the water of the infected pond reduces the intensity of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">Mixing five milligrams of copper sulphate solution in a litre of water should be prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">Then the diseased fish may be stocked into this solution for five minutes and again should be released to the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">Lime should be applied to the pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">Application of fertilizers and food supply should be stopped temporarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">Fin rot disease is a bacterial disease of fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">Symptoms of the disease : Whitish spots are found on the surface of the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">The fin membranes are broken and gradually decayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">The fish cannot move normally.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">The colour of the fish becomes dull.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">Spread of the disease : The disease is found to spread rapidly in ponds having excess amount of decomposable organic matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">Remedies of the disease : The disease may be conrolled by the following practices :</sent>
				<sent id ="553">The infected fins should be removed by cutting and the fish should be washed in a 2.5 per cent common salt solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">The tail rot disease of fish is a bacterial disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">Symptoms of the disease : At first whitish spots are found to form on the tail and base of the tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">The tail fin gradually decayed and detached from the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">The fish looses its balance of the body during movement, Finally the fish dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">Spread of the disease : The tail rot disease has been found to spread rapidly if the pond contains excess mud in the bottom.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">Prevention and remedies of the disease : The prevention and remedies of the disease is as like as that of fin rot disease of fishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">The necrotic disease of fishes is first caused due to the infection of a virus.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">In the later stage, secondary infection is caused by bacteria and fungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">The disease is found to occur in the unfavourable environment of the water bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">It is a serious infectious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">Symptoms of the disease : At first small round red spots are found to be formed on the body of the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">These red spots gradually become bigger and coalesce to form necrotic spots.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">The disease spreads very rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">The infected fish inactivly floats on the surface of water and move very slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">The tail of the diseased fish becomes decayed and detached from the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">The other organs of the body rotten gradually and the fish becomes full of bad odour.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">The infected fish dies within 10-15 days from the attack.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">Spread of the disease : The disease spreads rapidly with the onset of winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">The disease occurs when the temperature is lower, acidity increases and the alkalinity of the pond water decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">Prevention of the disease : The disease may be prevented by the following cultural practices :</sent>
				<sent id ="574">The environment in the water body should be kept free of pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">Appropriate amount of lime should be applied at the time of pond preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">The fish fries before stocking should be washed with salt solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">Mites are serious parasites of fish disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">A parasite called argulus is responsible for this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">Argulus is an external parasite, oval in shape and can not be seen normally by nacked eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">This argulus parasite sucks blood from the body of the fish through suckers.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">They get fixed on the surface of the body and thus suck blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">Symptoms of the disease : Argulus creates necrotic spots on the body of the fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">Infested fishes show abnormal movements.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">The fish rubs its body frequently with some hard surfaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">Spread of the disease : The parasite spreads very rapidly when the ponds have thick layer of muds and organic materials at the bottom.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">The unhygienic environment of the ponds are very favourable for the spread of argulus in pond fishes.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
