<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-agri-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.515</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">464</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">6173</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1598</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t81">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The total number of domestic fowl in Bangladesh is about 20.689 crore.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The purpose of poultry rearing in Bangladesh is mainly for egg and meat production.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The indigenous breeds of poultry of Bangladesh is not so much high yielding and they lay only 45 eggs per year.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The indigenous breeds of poultry are not usually reared for commercial purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The improved or hybrid varieties are mostly selected for commercial poultry farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Mainly three methods of poultry rearing are usually used to rear the poultry.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Free range system is the most traditional and popular poultry farming system in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">In this system, a small house is made using a wooden frame or bricks or clay walls giving a roof of two light shades.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The chicken moves freely during the day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They stay in their house at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Chickens are kept confined within the house during storms and rain and also during severe cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">They normally take the household waste food, insects, vegetables etc through their day long movements;</sent>
				<sent id ="13">as a result chicken do not get enough balanced food or diet in this system of farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The major advantages and disadvantages of poultry farming in free range system are mentioned below.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Additional food requirement is lower as it takes some amount of feed during moving freely around the homestead.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The chicken attains the capacity to adapt themselves with the local environment and that is why they are resistant to diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Both the cost and labour requirement are lower in this system.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">As the chicken is free to more around the whole day, is scope for them to get stolen.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">It leaves its droppings all over the place and also lays eggs in unspecified places.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Destroy the homestead vegetable gardens.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Creates disturbing situation for the neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Only 15-20 chicken can be reared at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Only the indigenous breeds of chicken are possible to rear in this free range system.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Poultry rearing in semi-intensive system : Small two roofed poultry houses are prepared arranging 1500-2000 square centimeters space for each bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The space within the boundary is known as run.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">It is better to make the run area partially shade by planting trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The run area should be kept dry and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Both the advantages and disadvantages of semi-intensive system are givey below.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">A large number of chicken can be reared.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Exotic and hybrid poultry breeds can be reared.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Less risk of getting stolen.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The laid eggs can be collected properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The chicken can be kept within the control of the owner.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">More cost is involved in giving wire net boundaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Supply of balanced diet is to be ensured.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">More labour is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Additional care is needed for getting satisfactory production.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">For rearing chicken in this intensive system double roofed tin shed house is prepared for the purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The floor of this type of house should be cemented.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The term litter means a natural cover or a cover of an organic material.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">A litter used in this section in meant for organic bed or cover in order to absorb the poultry excreta and urine.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The litter bed is prepared on the floor of the house using rice husk, saw dust, crushed straw and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The thickness of the litter should be 5-7.5 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">For that reason the poultry excreta does not come in direct contact with the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The poultry houses are required to be cleaned at an interval of 2-3 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Rearing of poultry having 15-20 centimeter thick litter in house floor is known as deep litter system.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">In most of the countries of the world, modern poultry farms are established in this method.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The litter material such as chopped straw, saw dust etc may be turned up and down by hoe like equipments weekly.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">If the litter becomes too moist then the litter may be removed by a new litter bed on the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The straw, saw dust etc get mixed with poultry excreta and converted to a good quality composts.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The litter may be used as fish food.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The floor of the house and the litter are not required to be cleaned frequently.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Bad smell are usually not found in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The litter absorbs the moisture part of the faces and thus the litter remain dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Requires more space.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Electricity cost is higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Labour cost higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">More time is required to identify and separate diseased birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Poultry rearing in cage system is getting popularity at present in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">In this system, separate chambers are made for each three poultry birds in the cage as per following measurements.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The cage is prepared by small thin rods or wire frames.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The poultry seed, water and laying arrangements are made in the cage.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Trays made of tin are placed at the bottom of each chamber so that the excreta droppings are collected there.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">This tray should be cleaned out twice a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The bottom of the cage is slightly tilted towards the front.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The eggs when laid rolls forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The poultry birds can enter their head and neck to take feed and water given outside the cage.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The objectives of rearing poultry birds in the homestead are to meet the nutritional need of the family and some additional income.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">a. Young men and women, children and the old people can directly be involved in working during the leisure time.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Economic benefits may easily be derived.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The farm may be managed by women within the household.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The unused places of the homestead may be utilized in poultry farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">All members of the family can be free diseases caused by deficiency of nutrient mineral elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The first essential activity in doing poultry farming is the selection of breed.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Leghorn, Australorp, Fyomi etc. are the breeds or improved poultry birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">White leghorn lays 250-350 numbers of eggs, Australorp lays 150-200 and Fyomi lays 200-250 eggs in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">These breeds can be reared for egg protection Among the improved breeds important for meat purpose are Starbro, Lohman, Highbro, Broilers, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">These improved breeds produce 1.5-2 kg of meat in a period of only two months.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Chicks, growing chickens and fertile eggs may be purchased from government and non-government poultry farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">These poultry birds may be fed with wheat bran, rice bran, oil cake, powdered dry fish and salt mixed with homestead waste food materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The site for poultry house should be on a high land, plain and well drained.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The poultry house may be built with bamboo, tin and straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The house should be strong enough to the protect the poultry birds from wild animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">About 2.70 square meter floor space is required for 10 adult poultry birds in a house.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The litter mixture of the floor (saw dust or rice husk) should be turned up and down at an interval of about seven days.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">When the litter gets excessively moister or very compact then it should be replaced by a new litter bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Food pots and water pots with enough food and water should be kept in the poultry house in hanging condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Egg laying nests are to be prepared and kept in the isolated corner of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Presently, cage system of poultry farming is gradually increasing in urban and rural areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Much care should be taken so that sufficient ray can enter into the house and gases like ammonia can go out of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Otherwise the house will be full of bad smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">For a better aeration, the length of the house should be faced to the east- west direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Wire nets should be given at the two sides of the house which will ensure better aeration and entrance of sufficient light.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">If the house is made of tin then bamboo mats should be given at the lower surface of the tin.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">It keeps the temperature of the house low during summer season and keep the temperature high during the winter season.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Poultry farming cage system has many advantages.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Large number of poultry birds may be reared in a small limited space.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The cost of preparing house is very low even excluding the price of preparing the cage.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Care taking of the poultry birds becomes very easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The disease infested poultry birds may be identified and isolated very easily and thus proper health care may be taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The demand of food reduces and the hens lay more eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The family nutrition is fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The farm may be started with 5-10 poultry birds which may be increased to large number in future.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The farm may be set up in the verandah or below the stairs in a corner, if no other space is available in the premise.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The mortality rate of poultry birds is 5% maximum.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The farm becomes self or family managed, thus additional labour and labour costs are not involved.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The possibility of getting the eggs dirty or broken is greatly reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">No litter bed is required for the poultry farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Collection of egg is very convenient.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The major functions of a balanced food in a body may be mentioned below :</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Provides energy to the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Fulfills the natural deficiency of the body components.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Increases the production of meat and eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Increases resistance to diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Balanced food is prepared by combining these types of compounds in definite proportions.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The food requirement of poultry birds varies according to their age and stage of growth.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">For example, the protein and mineral requirements of poultry birds in growing stage are very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The adult poultry requires higher energy elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The protein requirement for meat producing broiler breed is higher, that is 21-23 per cent.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Fats and oil compounds may be obtained from oil cakes.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The bone met and snail (oyster) shell grounds are mixed with the food for supplying mineral elements in the balanced food.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">These minerals make the egg shell of poultry birds stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Vitamins are also mixed with balanced food.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">One should take care that the food elements which are mixed in the balanced food are in exact proportions.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The leaves of ipil ipil, pieces of yellow and red vegetables may be used as good sources of vitamins, and mixed with poultry food.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Mineral and vitamin premixes may be purchased from the market and mixed with the balanced food.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Enough clean water should be supplied to the poultry birds along with balanced food.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Tubewells and wells may be used as sources of clean water.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Water helps in digestion of food and control the temperature of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Water regulates circulation of blood in the body, keep the body organs fit for work and greatly helps in excretion of body metabolic wastes.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The food requirements of poultry birds of various ages and growth stages are not same.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Every chicken takes about 10 grams of food on an average per day in the first week.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The food requirement gradually increases with the increase of age of the birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">One adult egg laying hen takes about 120 grams of food per day.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">In closed poultry farming system, the entire food should be given in front of the poultry birds in food containers.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">In an open or semi open farming system about half the amount of the food should be supplied in food containers for the poultry birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The food items and its quantities may slightly be changed according to the availability and price of the food materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Enough clean water supply should be be ensured.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">In a 100 parts food, three parts of vegetable pieces should be mixed.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The mineral and Vitamin premix should be mixed with the balanced food as per recommendation of the manufacturer.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The homestead poultry farms are managed by the family members.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Economic profits may be obtained by selling these products in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It brings economic solvency and also creates self reliance of the farmer.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The protein requirements of the family members are met by eggs and meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The excess places of homestead lying idle are utilized in these farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The unemployed young people can get their self employment in such a poultry farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The poultry farms of homesteads are usually smaller in size and capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The farm may be initially started with any suitable number of poultry birds, starting from 5-10 numbers.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">However, there should be one cockrel for nine hens.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">This proportion of cockerl and hen will be 1:It should be maintained in case of any number of total poultry birds in the farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">White leg horn, Australorp and Fyomi breeds of poultry may be selected if the objective of the farm is to produce eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">A detailed plan of the poultry farm should be laid out before going to actual investment in the farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The primary cost requirement for making the poultry house and purchase of poultry birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The costs for poultry food.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The costs of vaccination and other necessary medical care.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Income from the eggs, chicks and adult birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Neat profit excluding the total expenditure from the total income.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">For determining the actual profit from the farm, the expenditure and income statements should be documented and prepared on daily, monthly and yearly basis.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Healthy and hygienic housing arrangements should be made for the poultry birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Arrangement should be made for balanced food and use of pure water.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Steps for controlling diseases and drainage of excess water should also be taken simultaneously.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Regular vaccination should be given to control infectious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Poultry birds may be reared in open and semi-intensive systems in the homestead farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Presently intensive system of poultry farms are gaining popularity due to several advantages.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Cage system of poultry farming is best for premises where the spaces is very limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The intensive system of poultry farming is extensively being used in the urban and rural areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">It creates bad smell if the poultry excreta is not regularly cleaned in the cage system of poultry farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">For this reason, improved cage system has been evolved with the integration of cage and litter systems.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">When the litter gets moistened after some days, it may be dried in the sun and may be prepared for reuse.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The Cage Litter Integrated System has been found to work successfully in trial farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">this system may be very good for homesteads because bad smells are minimized in such management.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Poultry droppings are not required to be cleaned every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Poultry droppings are is cleaned at an interval of few months.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The farm may be established on the roof of a building.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The litters when used for several times are converted to organic manures.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Both the complexity of work and labour requirement are minimized.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Essential things to do in a Poultry Farm For successful poultry farm one must carry out the following activities :</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Purchase good breed of poultry birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Prepare in the poultry house suitable environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Arrange temperature control for small chicks.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Supply balanced food and pure drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Give vaccination to the poultry birds in time.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Not keep poultry birds of different ages and different breeds in the same place.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Not allow entrance of visitors in the farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Isolate diseased birds and make arrangements for their treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Bury dead birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Toxin mixed water should be used at the entrance of the farm for the cleanliness of foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Keeping water mixed with iosone in a pot at the entrance of the farm for disinfecting the foot of the workers in the farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Prepare a list of poultry farm available in the locality with their address including government, non government and private farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Visit and write down the detail description of an enlisted farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Write down all the information and your comments in the practical note book and show it to the class teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Later on, collect poultry birds from the enlisted poultry farms when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">If appropriate poultry farm is not available nearby, the school has is arrange a farm of distant place through stady tour.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The activity and performance of the students should be evaluated accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The key point of commercial poultry farming is the higher production of eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">In the egg producing poultry farm the income will increase as the production of egg increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Because, egg is the only source of reproduction and multiplication.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Egg has multifarious demand in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Characteristics of an Egg Laying Hen The main characteristics of a hen which can lay more eggs may be mentioned as follow.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The eyes are large and sensitive.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The beaks are curved below and thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The ear lobe is large, soft and oily.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">The neck is short, broad and thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The back is large and straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The abdominal bone is long and curved gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The skin is thin, soft, and oily.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The abdomen is soft, large and fatless.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The moulting of the feathers is delayed but rapid when occurs.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The legs are strong and short, the space between the two legs is wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The anus is large, thick and moist.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The space between pelvic bones is 3-4 fingers and between the abdominal hone and pelvic bone is 4-5 fingers.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The main causes for which egg production of a laying hen may be reduced are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">If the existing weather changes abruptly, for example excessive hear or excessive cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">If a large number of poultry birds are reared in a small limited space.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">If the food is changed abruptly.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">If the food is not balanced and there is deficiency of one or more food items such as protein, carbohydrate, calcium, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">When egg laying hens are transferred from one place to another place or one flock to another flock.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">If the poultry birds are seriously afraid of due to some reasons or hearing abnormal sounds or seeing ferocious wild animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Due to the shortage of sufficient pure drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">During normal molting of feathers.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">An egg of hen usually composed of 10 per cent shell 60 per cent albumen and 30 per cent yolk.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The albumen mainly consists of protein and the yolk contains sufficient quantities of fats and oils.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The nutrient value of duck egg is not less than the hen egg, rather it is comparatively higher.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The egg of duck has a characteristics raw odour, tha't why many people do not like to take eggs of duck.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Moreover, eggs of duck contain some amino acid having sulphur.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The people who have allergic reaction to sulphur also may show allergic symptoms to duck eggs when eater by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Storing of eggs, keeping its nutritional value and quality intact and stopping of putrefection is known as preservation of eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The period for which the egg is stored without any quality change is known as preservation period.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">There are many methods of egg preservation and preservation period is known to vary according to method employed for this purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Egg is usually preserved for mainly tow purposes, such as for producing chicks and for consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">the eggs selected for hatching can be preserved for 7-10 days in winter season and 3-4 days in summer and rainy seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">If the eggs require to be preserved for more than five days then the preservation temperature should be at 60-65 fathrenheit.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">In places where there is no electricity, eggs may be preserved by using sodium silicate, hot water or lime water for a certain period.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The hatching rate of the eggs preserved for the third week is greatly reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Very few people in our country practice preservation of eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Every year 10-15 per cent eggs are lost due to lack of preservation.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Some additional eggs are consumed by the people after meeting family requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The other portion is spoiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Such a loss is incurred due to lack of timely preservation of eggs in appropriate methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Sometimes price of eggs becomes very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The egg traders then face financial loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Sometimes the price of eggs becomes so high that general people cannot take required quantity of eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">So there should be a balance of price which should be maintained for a longer period.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">That is why in our country it is essential to preserve eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Bangladesh is predominantly a sub-tropical humid country.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The temperature remains higher for a long period.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Due to this warm climate the eggs get decomposed within a very short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Eggs are preserved in earthen pots with rice husk or straw in the rural areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">But the eggs are not well kept by these traditional methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Scientific methods should be employed for egg preservation to ensure successful egg business.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The temperature of the room where eggs are preserved should be strictly controlled.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Most of the rural villages of Bangladesh do not have power facility.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Supply of electricity is not available or not ensured in many towns and suburban areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">In these areas, it is not possible to preserve eggs controlling the room temperature effectively, Besides, the method is costly.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">It is not possible to follow this method by egg traders having low capital investments.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Some simple methods of egg preservation are briefly described below.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">In this method one pit of hole is to be made on the kucha floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Then an earthen pot should be placed in that hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">The side of the earthen pot should be filled by charcoal covering an area of about 30 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The eggs will be put in to the earthen pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">The charcoal given around the pot should be moistened every day by water.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">As a result, the temperature of the earthen pot will remain cool and eggs will be in good condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">the egg is spoiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">When the eggs are dipped in lime water or sodium silicate water, then the small pores of egg shell are concealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Thus water vapour cannot enter into the egg from the atmosphere and the quality of the egg is restored.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">In this way the eggs are kept good for a long period.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Eggs may be preserved for a certain period soaking them in diluted sodium silicate solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Before soaking, the eggs should be fully cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">In this method one kg of sodium silicate is diluted in about 10 litres of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">The mixture should be made thoroughly by shaking uniformly.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">About 15 dozen a eggs may be preserved by this amount of solution made.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">The cost for preservation of eggs is comparatively lower when the sodium silicate method is employed.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The common farmers and egg businessmen can successfully preserve eggs in this method in the local households.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">About 1.2 kg of lime should be diluted to 20 litres or water.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">The solution should be kept for sedimentation and cooling for 10 minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Then the transparent water above the sedimented lime solution may be used for egg preservation.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The clear lime water should be taken in a pot and the eggs should be soaked in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Eggs may be preserved by this method for about two months.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Then the mixture should be allowed for sedimentation over night.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">After one day the clear solution excluding sediments should be taken in a pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Eggs may be preserved by this method for about two months under rural condition of our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Eggs may be preserved by treating the eggs in hot water.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">After soaking the eggs should be taken out from the pot and should be kept in another fresh pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">The quality of eggs remains unchanged for about a month when this hot water soaking method is employed.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Oil method of egg preservation if followed should be employed just after laying of the eggs without delay.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The eggs may be soaked in slightly warm soybean oil and eggs should be kept in another pot taking them out of the oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">As an alternative way the oil may be sprayed on the eggs by a small sprayer machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Eggs may be preserved for about 25-30 days by this oil method.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The oil applied in this method closes the small pores of the egg shell.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">About 11,000 to 12,000 eggs may be preserved in 4.5 litres oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The room temperature where eggs are preserved is strictly controlled.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">High temperature is one of the major causes of quality deterioration of eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">The eggs remain in good condition at a temperature of 10-50 degree fahrenheit in refrigerator or cold storage for many days.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">However, if eggs are preserved in cold storage with other materials then the preserved eggs may have some bad smell.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">So cold storage specified for egg storage should not be used for other materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Eggs if preserved in refrigerator, should be taken out of the refrigerator one hour before use.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">When the eggs attain room temperature then these can be eaten.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Eggs may be preserved in refrigerator for many days at 4celcius or 36 fahrenheit.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">The relative humidity of the cold storage should be 70-80 per cent.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Like all other animals poultry birds are infected by many infectious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">The diseases caused by pathogenic organisms are known as infectious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Important among the infectious diseases commonly found to break out in our country are ranikhet, pox, blood dysentery, cholera and duck plague.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Ranikhet disease is most important among the infectious diseases of poultry in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">It is a serious infectious disease caused by a virus organism.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Fowls of all ages may be attacked by ranikhet disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">The mortality rate of ranikhet in poultry is about 100 per cent.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The fowl may die suddenly without showing any remarkable symptom.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">At the first stage eyes of the diseased birds are found to be closed, neck and head are kept in curved or twisted condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">The respiratory trouble starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">The colour of the excreta becomes withish like lime with greenish spots.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">There may be some blood along with the excreta of the diseased birds (fowl).</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The respiratory trouble gradually increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">The bird takes breath opening its beak widely producing hitching sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Saliva drops from the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">The weight of the bird is found to be greatly decreased.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Shivering occurs in the body, the wings are dropped loosely.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">The bird becomes lazy and sits lavishly as if taking rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Tears come out from the eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Do not like to take food and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Egg production is seriously reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">There is no treatment of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">There are two types of vaccines available for ranikhet disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">These are as follows : a. Baby chicks disease vaccine (BCRDV) for chicks.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Ranikeht disease vaccine (RDV) for adult birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Fowl pox is a serious infectious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">The disease is caused by a virus pathogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Usually fowl pox disease breaks out towards the end of a winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">The first symptom of fowl pox disease is high temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Red spots are seen on the skin of featherless places, around the mouth and head and under the wing.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">The red spots gradually enlarge to give it a size of lentil grain or even larger size.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Small lesions may be seen on the eyes and if so the birds become blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The internal surface of the mouth shows ulcerated lesions for which the diseased birds cannot take food.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">As a result the birds gradually become very weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">If lesions are produced in the respiratory tract then the birds suffer from respiratory troubles.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Bleeding occurs during the separation of the scab from the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">The diseased birds may not die but the egg production is greatly reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">The death rate due to fowl pox is 30-40 per cent in case of young chicks.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">The diseased birds should be separated from the flock immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The affected place should be cleaned by a fresh piece of cloth or cotton with savlon, dettol or potassium permanganate in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">The chicks of 12 days old should be given pegion pox vaccine.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">The fowl pox vaccine should be given at the age of 28 days of the chickens.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Blood dysentery is a very serious disease, specially for the chickens.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">The death rate due to blood dysentery is very high, 70-80 per cent in case of diseased fowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">The disease is caused by one protozoa.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">The name of the protozoa is Eimeria.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">the favourable conditions for the incidence of the disease are high humidity and excessively moistened litter.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The disease may spread through the food, water and excreta of the diseased birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">The disease symptoms may be sen after 2-4 days of infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">The excreta is watery with excess of bubbles and spots of blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">The bird suffers from serious pain making characteristics sound and shows drowsiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">The birds stop eating food and drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">The chicks lie on the litter before death and die after 4-5 hours of suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Advice should be taken from the doctor in case of treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">The disease is known as fowl cholera.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Fowl cholera is a serious infectious disease caused by bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">The ducks are also affected by this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">The name of the bacteria is pasteurella maltocida.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Cholera causes extensive loss of poultry birds in the poultry and duck farms in rural Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The moist litter, higher relative humidity of atmosphere help the rapid spread of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The pathogens of the cholera disease mainly spread through excreta of the diseased birds, food container and water pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">The symptoms of cholera may be seen after 2-4 days of infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The colour of the excreta becomes yellowish or greenish.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">The wings drop down and the birds stop eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Excessive saliva is secreted from the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">The comb and the ear lobe changes its normal colour and gradually become bluish.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">The egg production is gradually decreased and completely stopped at the advance stage of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">If ducks are attacked by this disease, it starts rotating keeping the head slanting at one side.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Cholera vaccine may be given to the poultry birds at the age of about 10 weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">The duck plague disease is caused by one type of virus.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">It is a serious infectious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">A large number of duck farms are destroyed due to the out break of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">The disease mainly spreads through food materials and drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Loss of appetite, frequent thirst for drinking water etc. are major preliminary symptoms of duck plague disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">The colour of the beak becomes bluish gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">The excreta becomes watery.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">The duck shows unwillingness to go to water.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Get afraid when see light.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Egg production of laying ducks suddenly reduce or stop completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">A duck once attacked by duck plague disease normally go out of treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Seriously affected ducks cannot be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">The ducks may be saved from the duck plague disease giving regular vaccines.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">The following measures should be taken so that poultry birds are not attacked by infectious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">The measures are mentioned below.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Rearing disease free poultry birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Giving preventive vaccines regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Feeding disease free and balanced food and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">The poultry house should be kept neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">The litter should be kept dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Arrangement should be made for proper ventilation and supply of light within the poultry house.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Protecting the mixing of litter and food during handling.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Using pure drinking water for the poultry birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Not rear poultry birds of different ages and breeds at the same and time.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Protect the access of wild animals and wild birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">The birds attacked by any disease should be quarantined from the healthy stock without delay.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Regular checking of the health of the poultry birds and examining excreta.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">Arrangement for proper treatment as per suggestions of the veterinary doctors.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Not giving vaccination to the poultry bird which is already attacked by a disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Burying of the dead birds or burning them.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">In some parts of Bangladesh the Quail has been included in the list of poultry industry since The original habitual of Quail is Japan.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">The meat and egg of quail is very attractive and tasty.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">The weight of an adult Quail is about 150-200 grams.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The weight of a quail egg is about 10-12 grams.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">One Quail can lay about 200-250 eggs per year.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">The climate and weather of Bangladesh is suitable for rearing Quail successfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Meanwhile many Quail farms have been established throughout Bangladesh including some areas of Dhaka, Savar and Manikganj districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">The rearing of Quail have some specific advantages which are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Quail farm may be started with low capital investment.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Quail farms are usually smaller in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">So limited space is required for its establishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">As much as 8-10 Quail birds may be reared in a space which is required for a single fowl or duck.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Disease problems in Quail is minimum.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">The problems of giving preventive vaccines are very little.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Starts egg laying at the age of 6-7 weeks only.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">A quail takes only 20-25 grams of food per day.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">The Quail is a newly introduced poultry bird in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">The details of Quail rearing is still not known by the people of our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">For successful Quail production, its technical management practices should be well known to the farmers.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">The general methods of Quail rearing is similar to other common poultry birds including fowl, ducks and pegions.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Quail also needs suitable housing and balanced food to give optimum production of eggs and meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The house where the Quail chicks stay and its after cares are taken is known as Quail the Rearing House.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Arrangement for controlling temperature is also done in this house.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">So, the house is also known as brooding house.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Space requirement for each Quail chick up to four weeks of age is 125-140 square centimeter.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">All the holes and breaches should be closed to prevent the entrance of rain water of wild animals and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">The house should always be kept free of pathogenic micro-organisms and neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Arrangement should be made for supplying food and drinking water within the chick guard.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Food should be given on trays up to 4-5 days after bringing the chicks in the brooding house.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Water pot should be prepared for supplying pure drinking water for the chicks.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Quail eggs are hatched in a period of 17-18 days when set in incubators.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">The weight of each chick may vary between 7-8 grams.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">These chicks are to be reared on the litters of brooding house and given artificial heat for a period of 4-5 weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Artificial heat may be arranged by using electric bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">A bulb of 40-100 watts may be sufficient as per seasonal variation for 50- 100 Quail chicks.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">In a Quail chicken house one 60 watt electric bulb is sufficient for heating a space of 9.25 square meter or 100 square feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">If the temperature is low then the chicks stay in cluster around the centrally placed bulb, below the hover.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">If the temperature is high then the Quail chicks are scattered and stay near the chick guard, away from the hover.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">If the temperature is optimum then the chicks stay well distributed throughout the chick guard, run freely and take necessary food.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">In the case of low or high temperature the chicks do not move freely and do not take sufficient food.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Usually artificial control of temperature is essential for the Quail chicks for 3-4 weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">After that the Quail chickens are required to be transferred to the cage.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">The light requirement of adult Quail in the Quail house for getting expected rate of egg production is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">The Quail chicks have very little capability of controlling its temperature up to the age of three weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">As a result many chicks suffer from low temperature effects and even die due to cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">The chicks which survive do not grow at the expected rate due to unfavorable temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">The soft short feathers can not control or conserve the body temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Food plays a vital role in regulating the growth and development of Quail chicks.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">If sufficient food is not available, the body of the Quail chicks may suffer from cold injury due to the shortage of enough calories.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">The chicks thus die gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">An adult Quail bird can take 20- 25 grams of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">The food should have 22-24 per cent protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">It must have 1700-3000 kilo calories metabolic energy per kg of the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">The mortality rate of Quail chicks is higher at the primary of its life.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">One of the main reasons for such a high death rate of Quail is the shortage of pure drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">The loss of moisture from the body of the Quail chicks is higher because of the high temperature maintained in the brooder house.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Sufficient water must be given to the Quail chicks to meet the water shortage.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Otherwise Quail chicks may die for water The mortality rate of Quail chicks is higher at the primary of its life.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">One of the main reasons for such a high death rate of Quail is the shortage of pure drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">The loss of moisture from the body of the Quail chicks is higher because of the high temperature maintained in the brooder house.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Sufficient water must be given to the Quail chicks to meet the water shortage.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Otherwise Quail chicks may die for water deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Sometimes Quail chicks may fall into the water pot and may die due to excess cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">This quite a common accident and so.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Much care should be taken in this respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">The pots of food and water is similar to the pots used for fowls and ducks, but the sizes are smaller.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
