<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-agri-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.472</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">449</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5674</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1652</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t80">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">There are about 2.287 crore of cows in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">These are indigenous and less productive.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">In the past the country had less population.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">There were plenty of pasture lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">It was possible to meet the demand of milk and beef by rearing cattle of indigenous breeds in traditional method.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">At present it has become difficult to meet the demand of milk and beef for the rapidly growing population.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">For this reason, improved breeds of cattle has been evolved through hybridization.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Improved hybrid cow yields 10-15 litres of milk a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">A hybrid cow can yield 25 liters of milk a day if balanced food is provided and cows are reared hygienically.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">As a result, interest among the people foe rearing cows of improved breed is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">In the villages and even in the city suburb, Many people rear cows of improved breed.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Improved breed of cow such as Holstein, Jersy, Ireshire, Gurarcy, and Brown Swiss are available in Europe, America and Australia.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">They are famous for milk production.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Red Sindhi, Shahuwal of Pakistan, and Hariana of India are improved breeds of milk producing cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The production capacity of indigenous (local) cows increases if these are inseminated with the semen of the bull of improved breed artificially.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The per day milk production of hybrid breed increases upto 15-16 litres.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">For proper care and management of cow, first of all a good living place is requires for both family and commercial farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The fundamental factors regarding the living place of cows are imputation.The living place should be dry and elevated.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The soil should be able to absorb water thinly.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">It should hare access to sunlight and free air.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The shed must be well built.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The shed must be protective against wild animal, storm and rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Resting Place : Each cow needs about 5.4 square meter living place.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">It is better to spread sand, saw dust and straw on the floor of the resting place for proper nest.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Feeding Place : For each cow nine square meter space is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">In this space cows are fed.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Each cow needs 75 cm feeding space.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It is better of have a concrete floor for this area.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Milking Place : It is the place where cows are milked.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Scientific rearing arrangement should be made for cows after making living place.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Proper hygiene, Appropriate breeding, balanced food, preventive measures are the preconditions of rearing cows of improved breed.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Every day cows are to be bathed.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Before milking the under should be cleaned and the hands of the milking man should be washed with potassium mixed water.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The calf is to be fed as per requirement and the rest of the milk should be milked.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The interim period between two calfing should not be more than one year.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">As a result the cow will remain milkless for a long time and the inter time for two calfing will be longer.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">If after 60-90 days of delivery the cow does not come into heat, the doctors should be consulted.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Or the milk of production will be decreased after delivery and the cow will be dried up.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Due attention should be paid during delivery of cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Inspite of proper care the deficiency of food or malnutrition can make the cow weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">As a result milk production will be decreased and the cow will be sick and consequently the cow will lose its fertility.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">For this reason , in the management of cow the most important factor is to provide balanced food.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The cow is a machine for milk production.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Food is the raw material for this machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The cow is to be fed balanced food in order to keep the milk production in an increasing trend.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">On the basis of nature and quality, the food can be divided into two groups, such as fibrous and (ii) concentrate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Green grass, straw, dry grass, millet, maize, preserved green grass and silage are fibrous food.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Mustard, oil cake, rice bran, wheat barn, pulse and rice grain, etc. are concentrate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">In the rural areas of our country the cattle are fed with straw, grasses and some herbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Some people fed them rice bran, gruel, husk, oil, cakes etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Dry Straw should be cut into pieces and mixed with gruel oil cake and salt to fed the cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Each cow should be given 300 gm molasses with straw everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Each cow should be given six kg of green grass for each 100 of body weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">It is essential to provide sufficient amount of pure water everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Green grass is one of the major components of balanced food.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">There is a saying that if you feed green grass to the cow, you will get milk throughout the whole year.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Green grass increases milk production, body growth and energy for work.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">It also makes skin smooth and cow gives birth to a healthy calf and no disease can occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Diseases due to malnutrition never occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Green grass contains sufficient amount of vitamins which increase fertility of the cow and the calf.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Due to shortage of green grass, fertility of the heifer calf is delayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Due to insufficient green grass, parturition become difficult and sometimes ovary becomes abnormal.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">There are different types of green grass in our country as durba, baksha, bhadail, dhaicnha, kella, bileini, binya, kausha, dalkalmi, maloncha,arail,sechi,water hyacinth, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Besides, the leaves of many trees are used and cattle food instend of green grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Amongst these tree jack fruit doiya, rain tree are worth mentioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Due to shortage of pasture land, there is scarcity of green grass in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">So, improved types of grass should be cultivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">There are nurseries of improved type of grass at the thana veterinary dispensaries and in the government dairy farms.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Grass seeds, seedlings and cuttings are distributed among the farmers from those centers.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">All over Bangladesh this grass can be grown.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Usually, this grass is cultivated through cutting roots and stolen.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">They should have at least three nodes in eacht stock.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">At first the land should be ploughed finely.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Then three cuttings should be planted together in such a way so that one mode is placed under ground;</sent>
				<sent id ="75">(ii) the second node should be paralled to the soil and</sent>
				<sent id ="76">(iii) the third node is placed above the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Cutting should be placed at the angle of 45 - 60 with soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The process will help the easy spread of roots, from the nodes Six to seven cuttings can be obtained from one branch of napier.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">There is a possibility of rottening of the cuttings due to excess rainfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It is easy to multiply napier through basal stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Usually land is to be prepared during the month of Baishakh after heavy shower.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">After the preparation of land the seedlings are transplanted.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">One big sapling can be divided into four or five.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The seedlings are to be transplanted in lines after trimming the top.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">It is better to put some cowdung or guan around each seedling.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Napier can be transplanted from end of Baishakh to Bhadra.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">But earlier plantation yields better result.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Napier grass can be harvested after 45 60 days of transplantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">If the grass is planted after due preparation of land, grass can be harvested after 90 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In this case transplantation method is different.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Small holes are to be made and around the seeding some cowdung is to be placed, The plantation is to be done in regular lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">As a result when there is rain, loose soild will be deposted in second line and tere will be less possibility of breaking the lines.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Napier grass can be harvested after 3-4 weeks of each harvest.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Grasses are to be harvested 7- 10 cm about the ground level.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Otherwise there will be some damage to the grass stock.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Napier grass once transplanted can be retained for 3-4 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">After that reactivation is necessary in order to stop the decrease of production.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">W Para is an aquatic grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Sometimes it is also called buffalo grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">This grass is grown well in dumpy land.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Para grows in all kinds of lands viz high, low slopy water stagnant and saline soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The weather of Bangladesh is congenial for para grass production.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">By the side of bush, in between plants slopy land, side of the roads and fallow lands are suitable for para grass cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The land needs 2-3 ploughing and laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Before ploughing sufficient amount of cowdung should be applied in the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Usually, Baishakh and grass cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Plants with roots or stems can be used as seed.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The seedling of the grass can be planted in rows or haphazardly.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The distance form one row to another row is 60-90 cm and distance from seedling to seedling is 15-30 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The good production the soil must be kept moist.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Eight to ten cuttings may be done in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">One hundred tons of grass can be produced from one hectare of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">This grass can be preserved after drying as silage.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The cattle can be grazed in the field also.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The protein content of para grass in 6.9 per cent.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Guinea grass is highly productive and permanent.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">It grows well in Bangladesh during monsoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">This grass can be produce in shady places like mango, Jackfruit, coconut and betel-nut gardens.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Guinea grass can be produced both from seeds and cuttings.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">It is multiplied from cuttings.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Before cultivation, land should be cultivation and made free of weeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Ones the seedling are sprouted weeds can not do any harm, if it cultivated through land stem, weeds cannot do any harm.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The seedlings should be keeps to protect from strong sun light.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">If the grasses are planted during this time they remain production for few years.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">From a stem stock 4-5 seedlings can be obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">If the Seedling are uprooted with roots plants become stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The seedling should be transplanted as quickly as possible after uprooting.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The line to line distance should be 90 cm and plant to plant distance 30 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Each seedling should be rooted at a depth of 7-10 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">usually guinea grass remain productive from may to October and can be harvested in five weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Thirty tons of grass can be obtained each year from one acre of land is and fertilizers are applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">This grass grows in low land.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The weather and soil of Bangladesh are very suitable for the cultivation of this grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It grows in low land muddy soil, slope land and water logged land.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Cultivation of this grass needs well preparation of soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The cultivation of the grass are planted in muddy soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Soil must be free from weeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Before planting the grass the land should be ploughed well followed by laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">During the month of Baishakh to Shraban this grass can be planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Seedling is best with roots and stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Each cutting should have 2-3 nodes.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">It is better to plant the cutting in a slanting position.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">But cutting with node must be above water.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Otherwise cutting will be rottener.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">This grass can be planted both in line an haphazard manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Distance between rows should be 80-90 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Clearing of weeds is easy if it is planted in rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">For better production, sufficient cowdung and other fertilizer are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Substantially this grass grows very quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It is as long as para grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Normally the grass becomes 150-180 cm long and the blade 30-50 cm long.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Grass can be first harvested after 2-3 months of plantation.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Yearly 8-10 harvests can be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">This is a very high quality grass for cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">If there is arrangement for irrigation and application of balanced fertilizer per hectare yield may be 1200 quintal.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Maize is an excellent food for livestock and poultry.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Maize is used as concentrate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Maize plants are used as fodder.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Maize can be cultivated twice a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">First cultivation can be done from mid Aswin to Agrahyan.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">And the second crop can be yielded from Falgoon to mid Chaitrys.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">High land is necessary for maize cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Low land can also be used for the purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Our soil is very much congenial for maize cultivation pare.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Maize can be cultivated in two ways, viz broadcasting and (ii) line sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">In line sowing , line to line distance should be about 30 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Seeds should be planted at a distance of five cm and at a depth of 7-10 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Thirty five or forty kg of seeds are sown per hectare of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">After rainfall or irrigation, seeds should be broadcast or planted.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The maize is a rapidly growing fodder.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Before the emergence of cobs, 18-20 tons of fodder can be obtained from one hectare of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The maize plant become suitable for harvest for fodder at the height of one meter.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">If grains are needed, these should be collected when the colour of grains of yellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">After extracting grains cobs can be grinded and used as food.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Then the maize seedling attain the height of 15-20 cm the field should be made weed free and proper spading must be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">When the plants attain the height of 30-40 cm.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">alternate lines can be retained for grains.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">If this method is followed before the emergence of cobs, 18-30 tons of fodder can be obtained from per hectare of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">If maize is cultivated in proper time and in improved method, 50 tons of fodder can easily be obtained from one hectare of land.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Maize is a nutritious and high quality cattle food.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">This can be fed in green condition and it can also be preserved as silage.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The maize seeds can be preserved in polythene bags and also in earthen pot mixed with fine ash.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Maize contains 6.74% protein 0.52% calcium, 0.28% phosphorus and 0.34% potassium.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Maize is cultivated all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Cowpea is a nutritious and high yielding cattle fodder .The climate of Bangladesh is very suitable for cowpea production.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">As fodder cowpea can be cultivated 2-3 times a year, Cowpea is cultivated in early winter in seed production.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">If there is less rainfall cowpea can be cultivated in sloppy and high land.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Cowpea cultivation needs 4-5 sloughing followed by 2-3 laddering.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">For proper cultivation land must be weed free.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Proper maturing is to be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">If the land is fertile enough, crop can be cultivated without maturing.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Before sowing the seeds soil must be pulverized.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Rotten cow dung and waste materials from farms are used and high yield can be obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">During the initial stage of land preparation, TSP may be applied and in the final stage of land preparation MP is to be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The seed requirement per hectare of land is about 25 kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Yield per hectare of land may be about 250 quintal.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Cowpea and maize can be cultivated as mixed crop.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Usually seeds are sown during the months of February and March.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">If cowpea and maize are grown as mixed crop, the maize seeds are to be placed in lines and cowpea seeds are to be broadcast.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Mixed grass of cowpea and maize contains protein above 12%.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Cowpea can be cultivated both in broadcast and line methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">As fodder cowpea can be harvested within 45-50 days after sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Cowpea cultivation needs no irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Cowpea cultivation needs no irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Cowpea can be harvested every day as per requirement.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">During winter when napier grass remains in dormant condition, cowpea can be cultivated in napier field.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Pods of cowpea can be harvested after 2-2.5 months of sowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">This can be used as country bean.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Ipil-ipil is a leguminous plant.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">It's pods contain very high percentage of protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The leaves of Ipil Ipil look like those of tamarind of krishnachura.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">This plant can be 30 cm in circumference and 5-10 meter in height.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The saplings are available in nursery.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The saplings can be planted around the house, on the bank of ponds, by the sides of roads and on the ails of crop field.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Leaves are usually harvested before flowering and can be a good fodder.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">These can be dried up and mixed with concentrate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">In green condition this can be mixed with other grasses and straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Animal should not be given ipil-ipil leaves by itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Ipil-Ipil leaves and some other green grass contain very high percentages of protein and vitamin A.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">For cultivation of these crops of 90 cm x 90 cm space should be cleaned and well spaded.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">This space needs five kg well rotten cow dung or compost.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">After 2-3 days of application of manure, this space should be kept weeds free.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Due to lack of balanced food the animals quite often suffer from various deficiency diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">A balanced diet should include carbohydrate, protein, fat, vitamins and minerals are available at definite proportion for different ages of animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Milk fever is worth mentioning among nutritional deficiency diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">After delivery, cow suffers from calcium deficiency.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">At this initial stage the animal does not want to eat anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Animal frequently moves the head, pushes to tongue outside the mouth, muscles, head and legs shiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">In the second stage the animal lie down supporting on the chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The animal keeps her head on the shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">In this stage the cows should be pushed calcium injection.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Besides milk fever, cow may also suffer from diseases like osteomalicia, ricket, blindness and other diseases due to lack of minerals and vitamins.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">It is essential to adopt the following preventive and control measures to combat the cattle diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Animals should be vaccinated in time against all infectious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Mosquitoes, flies, ticks and other insects should be killed to protect the animals against ring worm, humpoore and external parasitic diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Pure drinking water and fresh food should be supplied in order to keep the cattle healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">In this process of fattening of cattle calves are selected and they are given special food, care and management.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Due to these factors calves grow very rapidly and within a very short time and large amount of beef can be obtained from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The cattle of Bangladesh is undeveloped.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Their average body weight is 125-150 kg.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Only 30-40 per cent of beef of these animals is consumable.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Most of the cattle suffer from malnutrition and parasitic diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">As a result, most of the cattle are emaciated and can not meet up the demand of protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">There is acute deficiency of protein for human diet in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Human being on an average need 62 gm of protein per day, but the people of Bangladesh get only seven gm per head a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">This deficiency can be met through fattening procedure of cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Implementation of this fattening process is of great important.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">This programmer can be repeated 2-3 times a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Within four months of the beginning of the process the cows become worth selling.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">A substantial profit can be obtained within a very short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Capital with profit can be realized within a very short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Animal protein deficiency can be met.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Unemployment problems of the young man can be solved.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Good business can run with small capital.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Financial solvency can be achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Better utilization of surplus foods of houses along with the locally available foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">First of all the straws are to be cut into pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Then the molasses and the urea are to be mixed with required amount of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Now the straws are to be spread in a container.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The mixture Urea molasses of land water is to be sprayed uniformly on it so that all straws are soaked and no water remains unused.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Usually 2-3 kg of molasses mixed straw is taken by each animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">After preparation the straws are to be covered with polythene.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Food remains in good condition up to three days after preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">A right dose of urea should be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">In Bangladesh 95% of the cattle are infested with worms.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Worms are of several types, such as round worm, tape and the liver fluke.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Round worm creates anemia and deteriorates health.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Tape worm attack liver and lung.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Flat worm attacks the liver.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">For treatment of worms the stool, saliva and mucus should be examined and medicine should be given as per advice of the doctor.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Emaciated animal should be given blood and other medicines.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">The food chart of cattle for fattening should be of special type.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The food chart should more carbohydrate, protein, fat and vitamins than the general food formula.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Amongst the protein, starch and fat the most mentionable components are rice and wheat bran, fish meal, mineral mixture, salt and molasses.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Food mixed with urea and molasses are used for fattening cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Urea and molasses can be mixed with food in two ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">If urea and molasses are fed with straws, it should be cut into small pieces and fed to the animal with rice and gruel.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Some salt is to be used with the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Besides, the unused domestic wastes like vegetables and fruit proteins, if added, can increase the nutritional value of cattle food.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Cattle should be given enough green grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">If there is shortage of green grass, leaves of ipil-ipil, jack fruit, babla, kanchan.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Then sugarcane top, maize plants, dhaincha leaves may be fed.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">These leaves may be cut into small pieces and mixed with straw and concentrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Concentrate food of 3-4 kg per day should be fed to each animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">This food should be fed in two equal doses, fifty per cent of the food in the morning and fifty per cent in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">A cow needs 5-7 kg of green grass a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Ipil lpil leaf and other herbs may be fed if available.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">In winter, the animal should be given warm water.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">This helps in the process of fattening.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">The cattle must be given pure drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Urea is a poisonous substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Therefore, all kinds of precautionary measures must be taken in using urea as a cattle food.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">From ancient time goats were known as Bejoar and Ivex aas wild animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">About 65% of world production of goats are produced in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Africa produces 30% of goats, and the rest 5% is produced in America, Europe and Australia.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">It is understood from this information that goats are produced and reared mainly in the densely populated countries of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">In Bangladesh goats are mainly reared by farmers of poor ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Goat is a valuable asset of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">There are many advantages of goat rearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Some main advantages are mentioned below : Self employment and income : All members of a family including the young members can rear goats.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">This is a self employment which brings income.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">A family can earn about ten thousand taka by rearing 4-6 goats in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Fulfilling the Demand of Protein : Goats are called the poor man,s cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Most of the people of Bangladesh is a common feature.Goat milk and meat can fulfill the demand of protein of our people.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">So be rearing goats, this protein deficit can be fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Some poultry feed can be prepared by using the intestinal waste materials of goats.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Earning Foreign Exchange : The hides of goats can be exported to increase foreign exchange earning.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">The hides of black Bengal goats of Bangladesh has great demand in foreign countries because of its high quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Setting up Small Scale Industry : Small scale Industries for scientific preservation of goats bones, Hooves, horns, milk and meat are important in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Small industries can also be set up for producing nutritious food.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">It ensures income, self employment and foreign exchange earning.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">So it may be concluded that rearing of goats in Bangladesh is very much profitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">The government of Bangladesh has taken up wide extended activities to provide scope of rearing goats by local the farmers.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Considering the advantages of rearing goats, small family farming and commercial farming of goats can be possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">On the basis of advantages and abilities, some farms mentioned below can be set up.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Open System Rearing : About 8-10 goats can be reared in this system.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Semi-intensive Farming : Goats may freely move outside by day and at night they are kept confined in this kind of farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Goats Farming in Intensive System : Goats are kept fully confined and controlled in this system of farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Small Forming in House Hold : This type of farm can be made through rearing 2-5 goat.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Interrelated Goats Farming : Goats can be reared in fruit gardens (example-coconut, betel nut, mango, jack fruit, guava, litchi).</sent>
				<sent id ="321">In this kind of farming income is possible from both goat rearing and fruit garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">It should be mentioned here that for social development a number of 10-15 she-goats and one he-goat should be reared in every village.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Any one can get help and service from the government of the country by setting up goats farm considering the advantages discussed above.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Model for Setting up Goats Farm: To extend the programme of setting up of goats farm in the country, a model can be followed.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Goats should be fed grass, straw and leaves regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">They should also be fed well-balanced concentrate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">The weather of some area of Bangladesh is very favourable for sheep rearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Sheep is a very gentle animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">They roam like nomads in a big group.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">They need little food, but pasture habit is more.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Sheep are reared for meat and fur.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">These are reared on Rajshahi, Noakhali, Sandwip, Mymensingh, Tangail and some areas of Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">In Bangladesh there are about 1.7 million sheep.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Indigenous sheep are of very poor quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Therefore, it is necessary to evolve hybrid sheep.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Merino, Ramani Mursh and Lincoln are very famous breeds of sheep in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Sheep live in groups or flocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">For this reason it is easy to rear them.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Sheep are cheap, so for sheep business less amount of capital investment is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Wool, milk and meat can be obtained from sheep.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Wool can easily be procured, preserved and exported.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">The female sheep gives birth to more than one lamb at a time.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">So the number of sheep increases very quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Within 5-8 months the lambs become worthy of sale.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Sheep do not destroy the plants around the house like goats.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">The dung of sheep contains very good amount of organic matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">So it increases the fertility of soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">The size of the sheep is small.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">So sheep can be reared in small area.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">In Bangladesh the number of sheep is less in comparison to other animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Sheep are reared in the family like cow and goat.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">But these sheep are indigenous.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">They are small in size and produce less meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">This can be done through the improvement of local breeds, adopting the process of hybridization.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">For this reason we should rear sheep adopting modern technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Dwelling place and Sheep care The sheep has better adaptability with environment in comparison with other cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">They can live on very low quality food.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">In our Country no hygienic arrangement and proper care are provided for sheep rearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">During the recent time the authority has realized the importance for breeding to improve breed of sheep.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">To rear improved breed of sheep, better dwelling house and proper care are necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Like other cattles, sheep also need suitable dwelling house and proper care.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The house of the sheep should consist of two roofs.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">There should be a small yard behind the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">The sheep can graze there in the morning and in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">There should be arrangement for collecting all litter and food in the yard of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">The shed for housing the sheep can be built with the help of bamboo, straw or corrugated iron sheet.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">When building a shed for sheep following factors need to be kept in the mind : The house should be south facing.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">The fence in the north or east may him a well of 75 cm width.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">And wire net measuring 105 meter may be placed about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">It will ensure easy air supply and the room will remain dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">The height of the room should be 2.5-3.meter.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">It should have facilities to store machinery and food in the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Each adult sheep of indigenous breed needs one square meter of space.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">There should be additional rooms inside the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">400-500 grams concentrate food like wheat bran, rice bran, oil cake and mineral salts along with green grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">In the pregnant condition the stool of female sheep should be examined and drugs for worms should be administered.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">All wastes should be disposed off 2-3 times at least a week and dried in the sunlighi so that no parasite or germ can grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">After delivery the sheep and the lambs should be kept on a bamboo platform.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Immediately after delivery.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">The naval chord of the lamb should be made germ free with the help of tincture iodine.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">It should be observed carefully so that the lambs can suck colostrums (first milk).</sent>
				<sent id ="382">For the production of sufficient milk the mother sheep should be given wheat bran, kheshari pulse, oilcake, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">As a result the lambs and the mother sheep will remain healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Production of lamb, wool and milk will increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Lambs should be given anthalmitics.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Mother sheep and the kids should not be grazed in a water lagged place or pasture land.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">At this time the lambs should be given wheat or mazie corn, rice, bran, pulse crash, oil cake, mineral mixture and green grass.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">In addition to normal food, the breeding sheep should be given 300-400 grams of concentrate food.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Local sheep can live on eating grass from the fallow land and herbs from the road side.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">But for the improvement breed balanced food should be provided in addition to these food.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Sheep should be supplied with sufficient amount of pure drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Usually the necessity of water depends on food, weather and age.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">During summer more water is needed than in the winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">If dry grass and concentrate food are fed, more water will be needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Sheep may be attacked with infectious diseases like any other cattle.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The most common diseases are anthrax, black quarter, Hemorrhagic septicemia, rabies or hydrophobia, titenus and foot and mouth diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">These diseases can be prevented by vaccination.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Sheep may be attacked with internal parasites as well like round worm, tape worm liver fluke, coccidian and hook worm etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Tape worm and liver fluke may cause damage the liver.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Hook worm and round worm cause create anaemia.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">Sometimes this anaemia becomes fatal.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The stool of the sheep should be examined and anthalmintic drugs should be administered.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">In case of external parasites the sheep needs to be sprayed with insecticide.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">The major external parasites are louse, tick, mosquito and fly.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Sheep can be saved from malnutrition providing balanced food.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">In order to prevent the parasites, litter, food and water must be made germ free.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Carcass of the dead sheep should be burried in a proper way.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">The stool, urine and litter should be burnt and disposed as soon as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">In Bangladesh a big numbers of cows, buffalos, goats and sheep are slaughtering everyday for number consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">In Bangladesh Everyday many cows, buffaloes, goats and sheep are slaughtered.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">The main objective of slaughtering is to get meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">From these slaughtered animals, we can also got hides, wool, fat, bones, intestine, blood, hoofs and horns.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">In our country unskilled people slaughter animals and collect hides.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">As a result many of the hides are destroyed while skinning and other by- product are wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">So animals should be slaughtered and the skin should be removed in a scientific methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">There are various of removing the methods skin from a slaughtered animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">It is possible to have good quality hide, clean meat and different by-products if the procedures mentioned below are followed :</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Sick animals should never be slaughtered.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Animals for slaughtering should be examined by the veterinary doctor to ensure that the animals are healthy and suitable for slaughtering.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">12 hours before slaughtering, all supply of concentrate and other solid food should be stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">The animals should be given sufficient drinking water before slaughtering.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">This helps remove the skin easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">It is better to slaughter animals in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Animals for sacrifice should also be slaughtered in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">The slaughtering place should be neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Animals for sacrifice should also be slaughtered adopting good facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">For laying them down so that the skins are not bruised.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">During slaughtering the heads of the animals should be a little tilted in order to help the blood to flow out smoothly.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Lines shall have to drawn with the tip of a knife from throat over the chest and stomach.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">another line is to be drawn in the same way from the knees of front legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">This is to be joined with the first one.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">6All the blood should be allowed to come out from the body of the animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Animals should be hanged from branch of tree and skin should be removed slowly in the banging condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">These will prevent any kind of damage to the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">One should be careful that the blood, dung and mud are do not get mixed with the meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">After collecting the meat these should be cut into pieces on a clean place.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Care should be taken so that dogs, cats and other animals do not enter the slaughtering place.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Arrangement should be made to sell and preserve hides within 5-6 hours of slaughtering.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">The hide should be spread on or dry and neat place and all meat trees fat, blood should be removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">After clearing the skin well common salt should be sprinkled and rubbed probably.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">After the first application of salt is absorbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Sufficient salt should be applied again in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">For each cow's skin 4-5kg of salt and for each goat's skin one kg of salt should be applied.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Blood, fat, stomach and intestine, horns and hoofs of animals can be used in the industry after proper collection.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Blood and bone meal can be used as animal food.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Fat is used in soap making.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Manure is prepared from bone.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Woolen clothes are prepared from fur.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Button and combs are made of horns of cows and buffaloes, Stomach and intestine are used as poultry and fish food.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
