<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-agri-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.708</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">522</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">6959</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1479</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t85">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">You have always seen things made of clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">You are using them in your daily- life also.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">pitchers, lids, bowls, flagans, plates, eathen-barrels etc. are being used for various needs from since ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Man learnt to make earthen-pots and various necessary things from the very beginning of the civilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Naturally the shapes and forms of those earthen things were of very primitive type.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The beautiful articles, made of China-clay, which we use now-a-days are made of pure clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">These are made of perfect and pure white-clay, where there is nothing else but-unadulterated basic materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">You will come to know more about the clay later.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">It takes you, almost the whole day to make a pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">But the potters can make a few hundred pots in that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">If you go to a potter's house, you will see how they make pots one by one in a moment.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">But has the coil-system become unnecessary and worthless ?</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Not at all !</sent>
				<sent id ="14">There are many small and big things to be made with coil-system.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Which cannot be made by wheels.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">So the importance to the coil system still exists.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">If you can bring this system under your control you will be able to make more beautiful things that the clay-pots.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The clay-pots, which, you have made meanwhile, may be smooth inside only and outside will remain grooved.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">You may think that, the things, which are made by coil system have to be kept grooved outside always.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">No, there is no rule like this you can keep both the sides smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">But, for this, the clay-coil should be kept a bit father than a pencil and the clay will be softer.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Now, try to make a pot with coil smooth inside and outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Because the pots will be made with clay, so clay is the chief material.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Other than that only a few simple and a few utensils will be needed to which you have already been introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">One or two names of utensils are added.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The list of the necessary utensils are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">To collect these utensils will not be hard at all for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">A few of them are to be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">You wi1l be able to make them, looking at the pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">You know, how to make coils with clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Draw the picture of the pot which you intend to make on a paper before beginning.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The picture is to be drawn as large or small as you want to make your pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Then, it will be convenient to compare the measurement and the form with the design, during-making the pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Now, what kind of pot you want to make?</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Make a flower-vase.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">But not like a simple tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The form of the vase on tile upper -part will be fatter than the lower part.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">After a certain height, the part for the neck of the vase will be thinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The apenedpant mouth will be a bit bigger than the neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The form of the flower vase will be tallish.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">If a garland is drawn on the neck, it will look beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Draw a picture- design, according to the description, then begin to make it.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Make one c.m. thick clay-chapati (like shape) with the roller and cut it according to the measurement of the design for the tower part.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Then make a clay-coil and fix it to the lower part.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Don't forget to put a little water to make it a bit wet, before fixing the coil.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Be careful so that the round shape of the coil remains full- round.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The coil has then been joined inside and outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Looking at the picture make the second coil and join it as the first one.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Putting coils on one after another according to the design, make the flower vase.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Make inside and outside of the vase smooth by pulling and rubbing with a wooden modeling tool after putting a few coils.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Be careful about that, every coil will be according to the measurement of the design.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Every coil will be different in measurement, none of them will be of the same measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The diameter of every coil is being bigger bit by bit from the lower portion to upper portion.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">And being smaller in the middle of the neck and again a little bit bigger.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">(Look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="56">At the time of joining every coil, put a little water to make it slightly wet.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The method of making a flower vase After forming the shape of the flower- vase, it is to be smooth, then to be decorated.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">You can make it smooth easily, outside of the vase with the broken piece of the saw.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Make, the outside of the vase plain at first with rough-side of the saw by scratching it.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Then make it very smooth by the right side of the saw.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Rub lightly the surface of the vase with a slight-wet sponge or foam.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Now, the vase has become more smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">the vase with a pointed knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It is to be remembered that, if the vase can not be completed in one day, it should be kept wrapping with a slight wet-rag.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Now have a look at your flower vase turning it about.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">At least you have learnt to make a vase, that's all!</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Isn't it amusing ?</sent>
				<sent id ="68">At the beginning it may happen that you want be able to make a perfect vase.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Don't be disappointed.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Everything will be all right after practising a few times.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">But you will have to work with patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">You will be able to make any small or big things with the coil-system.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">At first you need to bring the process under control.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">A few examples of pictures and designs are given.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Try to make pots, after studying the examples.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Don't forget to draw pictures following the examples according to your own measurements.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Once, our country was very famous for teracottas.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The evidences of the ancient period which still can be seen, almost all of them are teracottas.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">They are all terracottas.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Very few other evidences of pictures or arts of the past except these.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">So you can understand what important part of our tradition these terracotta-pictures are!</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Let us try to make a terracotta picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The materials and utensils are needed the same as before, which you have used to make a coil-system pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The new things are only two thin scales made of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The picture should be drawn on the paper, before making the picture in clay-slab.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Draw the picture as big as you want to make the slab-picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">First you have to decide what kind of picture you want to draw ?</sent>
				<sent id ="88">A village man with a basket of vegetables on his head, wearing a lungi, will be nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Make a border keeping some spaces around the picture like a frame.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Copy the picture with the border with carbon paper and cut out through the border on all four sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Now take five or six.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Then make 1 c.m. thick clay-slab like a chapati by rolling, this flat clay-clod with a wooden roller or a bamboo-tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">While rolling the clay, put that 1 c.m. thick ruler on two sides, then l c.m. thickness of the clay-slab, everywhere, will be the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">After making the clay-slab, put your carbon-copy-picture on the clay-slab.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Cut out the surplus clay with a knife, keeping a ruller on the border of the paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Then, move the pointed pencil lightly on the lines of the ,picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">So that the picture has come on the clay-slab.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Take off the paper of the picture after finishing it.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Look, the picture has become printed nicely on the clay-clab.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Hope you have remembered while making clay vase how you have done different dolls, elephants, horses, pressing the, lump of clay by hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Now you have to apply the same experiences to make the pictures on the slabs.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Don't forget to put the d join.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Make it a slight muddy scratching with the bamboo-knife and putting little bit water before fixing the parts so that they may fix properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Press a bit putting the pails on the slab to fix them properly and to blow out the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Notice that, some extra mud will squeeze out.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Make the mud plain with the pointed bamboo knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Complete your work putting clay on the slab like this.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Look how nicely the picture of a man with the basket of vegetable have become printed on the slab!</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The picture is not complete yet.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Have a good look at the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">You might have add a little more clay on cut of any extra bit if needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Make a 2 c.m. wide and l c.m. high border with clay like frame after completing the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Then make both the picture and the frame plain scratching little by little with a bamboo-knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Then draw face, eyes and lungi etc. by engraring it with a knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">A few scratches to be done on the basket to show the weaving.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">You have done the picture in the clay-slab.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Now it is needed to be hung, isn't it ?</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Make two thin small circles, and make a small hole in the middle so that the thread or string can pass through these holes.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Make two holes and encircle it with thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Then join these two firmly on the back-top sides of the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The picture will look very beautiful, as you like wherever you keep it.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">You have learnt a few pots and slab-pictures with clay, these are needed to be burnt and dried.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">You know that, the clay-things are to be dried, keeping them in the shadow.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">This will take time, but if this is done there is no possibility for it to get bent or cracked.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">How will you understand if it has dried well ?</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It may get cracked if you hold the dried thing in wet hand, so be careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">You can get your thing burnt, if there is any potter's house nearby.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Otherwise you can burnt them yourselves with wood- brans or rice-brans.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">You have learnt, how to burn in this process in class seven.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Certainly you still remember that if you forget, read it again from the book of class seven again.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Jute grows everywhere in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Different cottage crafts and handi-crafts have been made since the beginning in villages of our country and still are being made.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The shikas are found in almost every house.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Shikas are used to keep the house-hold things decoratively and properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The city-people also are using shikas and other jute-crafts, now-a-days.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The uses of jute-crafts have increased much more than before.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The crafts made of jute and multi-purpose creativities grew spreading practices of handicrafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Countless-crafts are being made with jute now a days.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">You will be able to make these yourselves if you practise regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Not only that, if you practise you will be able to invent many new handicrafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">You will not need any new materials here.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">you have learnt a few different table-mats to make in class six and seven.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">All those were mainly round or egg shaped mats.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Now, what you are going to make, will be rectangular mats.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">At first, make some braids with jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Take some of the braids and colour then as you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Keep the scissors near by.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The preparation of making things has been done.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Now begin your work.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Do you remember what you are making ?</sent>
				<sent id ="151">A square-shaped mat is to be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Sew the braid, folding it 5-6 c.m. in lengthwise.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">After finishing, sewing the first .one,</sent>
				<sent id ="154">then fold it again in back-side and sew, Fold and sew in this process continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Notice, the thing has become slowly into a rectangular-mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Notice that, every fold must be perfectly equal and all ends of folding must remain in a straight line.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">When the folding braids become upto rectangular size, means length and width will be the same then don't fold the braid any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Then turn the braids for two times around the square-mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">After turning, sew well and cut-off the extra braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Now fold the coloured braid twice and sew these and cut-off the extra braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Fold it again with the white braid around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In every caruer it has to be sewn- inevitably.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">You may use the coloured braids around the four side of the mat.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The square mat may be of any measurement as you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">It will look beautiful if white and coloured waves can be woven side by side.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">You will be able to make an oblong-mat in this process also.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">You have prepared a square-mat for the rectangular-mat at first.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">You will be able to make any mat with your skill.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Beautiful bags are being made now a days.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">A few are done with designs and a few are being made weaving with simple jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The students use bags to carry their books and other things on their shoulders.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It is not impossible to make nice bags by weaving with jute, though it is a bit hard-work.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">If you can make one of these yourselves, it will be nice, won't be?</sent>
				<sent id ="174">If you try a bit you can make a beautiful bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The different kinds of gunny can be found in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">A quality and compact-woven gunny will be good for bags.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Take a piece of gunny of 70 c.m. long and 35 c.m. wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The gunny is rough, so if a lining is put inside the bag will be comfortable to use.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The cloth for lining will be the same size of the gunny.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Put the cloth spreading it on the jute cloth holding four corners.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Then sew leaving together l c.m. on two parts of the gunny with the cloth together leaving a margin l c.m. on the sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Turn over the gunny and cloth after sewing so that the edges of cloth and gunny remain inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Then fold the gunny with the cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The cloth will remain outside and the edges will remain equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Sew well from two heads upto the fold equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Three parts have been closed, after sewing, one part is open.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">This open part is the face of the bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Now turn over the bag and sew, keep the cloth inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The main part of the bag has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Now it is to be hung on the shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Isn't it ?</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Just think easily it can be hung !</sent>
				<sent id ="193">It will look nice if it can be hung with the braid of jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Yes, do if and see the result.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">You will have three pieces of braids in your hand now.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Make a mark in the middle by folding each piece of braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Now spread two long braids in between the small braid such a way, so that they will be combined together with another.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Sew these three braids side by side with jute-coloured thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">You have made a 3 c.m. belt.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Join this to the main part of the bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Are you thinking how to join the belt with the main part of the bag ?</sent>
				<sent id ="202">It is not hard at all, very easy !</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Look at the picture and you will understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Take the bag and belt in your hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Keeping the middle of the belt on the middle of the bags, front sew two edges of two braids with two sides of the bags.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Both the sides of braids are to be sewn from the top to the lower corner of the bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The braids are to be sewn on both of the sides of the bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The surplus braid is to be bent firmly with the thread to the lower corner, and then open the braids.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Now comb the opened fibres and make them straight and smooth (Look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="210">If it is needed, then cut the haying portion of fibres, to make them equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Now, hang the bag across your shoulder and see how you feel.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">It is fun.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Isn't it ?</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The bag has become very simple.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">It will look nice with a design.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Make a very simple design on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Take 5-6 m.m. wide braid for the design.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Make a border design around four sides of the bag with white and coloured jute-braids by sewing.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Make any design in the middle of the border with white and coloured jute-braids as you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Looking at the picture you will have ideas about designs you can make designs in one side or both of the sides of the bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Hope, you will be able to make bags of different sizes and forms with _your skills, as the one you have made.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The shikas are being used in different ways in the villages of our country since ancient times.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">They have become experts due to long practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Naturally they had started to make very simple shikas in the begining, through gradual experience, they have gained creative-shikas.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">You have to begin with a simple shika too.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Then through continuous practices and skils you will also be able to make a high quality shika.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Let us make a simple shika now.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Make a bunch of 2.c.m. diameter jute smooth fibre by combing.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Bind it just in the middle (l0c.m.low) twisting for 2-3 times with thread or jute -fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Now divide the upper portion from the bending part of the bunch into three parts and make a 20 c.m. long braid.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Then bind it firmly with thread, so that the form of the ball remains round.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Put this ball inside the first bunch under the ring, spreading the fibre evenly and smoothly around the ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Then bind the bunch under the ball upto 1 c.m. with thread, twisting it, so that it looks like a ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">To make it convenient for work keep the braid-ring hanging on a pillar house or a window-bar or any other thing like these.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Now divide the bunch of jute into eight or ten portions as you like, but always it should be in even number.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Initially it is easier to divide it into right portion for learners.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Remember that, if it is necessary, join new jute fibre, you can make the braid as long as you like by joining more jute fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Making 30 c.m. long braids bind each firmly with coloured thread upto 5-6 m.m.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Then divide the jute fibre of each braid into two.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Make braids of 7 c.m. height each and take two braids from both sides and them thin together firmly with coloured thread upto 5-6 m.m.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Bind then all taking two braids like this, then you will find that there are eight bunches of jute fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Look again there are eight bunches of jute fibre.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Repeat this three or four times.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Then make braids of 7 c.m length with each bunch of these eight bunches.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Now taking these eight braids, bind firmly all the eight bunches of the jute fibre together with coloured thread upto l c.m.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The binding should be very strong because it will take the pressure of the things which will be stored in the shika.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Look, what a beautiful shika you have made.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">This shika is very easy to make.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">You will be able to make beautiful shikas from your experiences and skills, which you have gained after making this shika.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">You have made a few things with cotton and cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Surely you were happy to make birds and pictures of cotton brush and cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Any beautiful object is delightful to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Getting beautiful things can be more delightful.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">But making beautiful things by oneself is most interesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Now I shall teach you a few more new process of making crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Decorative pieces for house, dolls, toys etc..</sent>
				<sent id ="257">If you try a little to use your skill, you will surely be able to make these.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">You can make dolls, animls, birds etc. easily with cotton and cloth to decorate houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">These will look very beautiful, if they are hung on the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">These may not look real from all sides it will be seen only from the front side, but even it will look very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">This will be almost the same process.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Dolls, animals or birds whatever you want to make in this process should be very simple and easy but beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Draw on the paper what you want to make.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Print the picture on a hard paste- board or a thick white or brown paper, using a carbon paper on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Cut out the picture on the paste board and paper along the outer margin of the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Take care that, the picture on the paste board and the paper should exactly be the same of size.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Choose a piece of cloth according to the size of your design which you are going to make e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">yellow, pink, light brown etc. for dolls light grey for elephant, similarly matching colours for birds will be suitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Then put gune on the paste board and paste the bandage-cotton oil the gum.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Putting the cotton press it slightly then that the cotton may stick to the paste-board picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">When it dries slightly then cut the surplus cotton evenly, which may be around the paste- board.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Notice that the cloth does not stick together on the cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">A doll, an elephant or a bird, any of them which you wanted to make has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Now draw eyes, face, hair, ornaments, dresses etc. whatever is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">You can use coloured-clothes, beads, silver or golden thread coloured thread etc. for the decoration of the animals and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Now the crafts is to be hung.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Fix a piece of ribon, on the back of the paste-board firmly, folding it in the middle with two ends to be pasted two boards.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Then the white or brown paper which was cut before with the picture on the back side of the paste-board.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The work has been finished.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Look what does your crafts look like ?</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Different stages of making a doll and a few designs of crafts are given in the pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Notice the pictures you can make any craft of your choice following the process of the pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">A small doll girl is very simple and easy to make.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Since you are making it for the first time with cotton and cloth, so you will have to start with a simple one.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">After making a few you will be able to make fine and perfect dolls of different shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The different stages of making a doll have been shown in the pictures-.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Look at the picture minutely.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">A picture of a baby-form has been drawn around it, a margin has been drawn with dots.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">It means that the cloth has to be cut on the deleted line for making the doll.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Let us begin to make the doll now.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Draw a picture of a baby according to the design of your liking.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">The height should not be less than 19-20 c.m. have a margin of l c.m. surplus around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Take a pink or light brown piece of cloth and fold it in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">The cloth should be taken according to your design, so that, after folding the cloth, the design may fit on the cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Draw your design on the folded cloth with a carbon paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Then cut out the designed folded-cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Now sew with machine or hand on the line of the drawing, keeping one side open just like a pillow cover to fill with cotton.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">After finishing sewing, turn over the inside out of the cloth, look the cover of the doll has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Then fill it with cotton by a stick with a pencil pushing it in doll's head, hands and legs slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Then fill the whole body tightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">After filling it with cotton stitch the open side by sewing neatly.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Now, look, the main form of the doll is made.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Then putting hair, by drawing eyes and nose and putting dress, the doll will be completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">The hair is to be put with shining thread.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Put the hair spreading on the head as has been shown in the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">After spreading thread fix them by sewing with needle and black thread around the head with back stitches, leaving the forehead.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">It will look beautiful if some hair can be put on the forehead, but it should be cut short.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Then cut the hair evenly with a scissors evenly.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Look, how beautiful the hair of the doll looks.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Draw the eyes, nose etc, with oil colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">The doll is made, it is time to dress it up now.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Make a long dress with any material you like.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">If the dress is upto its feet it will look nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">You can put lace at the edges of sleeves and dress will look very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">You can make various kinds of animals, birds etc. almost in the same process as the dolls, which you have made with cotton and cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">You can innovate and think about new things by using your intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">The man has two legs so you need four pieces of cloths to make two legs of the doll.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">An Elephant has four legs, so eight parts of cloths will be, needed for four legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Four of same size for front legs and the same four parts for back legs will be needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The ears tail have to be made separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Try to make an elephant, looking at the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">If you try hard and with a little patience you will be able to make it.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The pictures of an elephant show the different stages and how to make it.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">A picture of a bird has given too, but how to make it is not given.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Let me see if you can make it with your intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Various kinds of crafts are being made with wood in our country from ancient time.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Just like the relics ancient craft in terracottas, we can find the same in wooden-statues, decorated pillars doors, furniture and other usable things.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">There are many evidences like these in our national museum and other local historical museums.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">We can see many kinds of wooden toys as wooden dolls, elephants horses etc..</sent>
				<sent id ="330">If we go to any fair.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">You had the same wooden toys once.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">You would feel very happy to play with these.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Won't you feel happy if you could make a toy or any other beautiful thing like this yourself?</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Of course you will.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Then why don't you try to make some?</sent>
				<sent id ="336">The most soft and available wood are Kadam and Shimul (silk-cotton plant) are found in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">You will have to use ply-wood for a few works.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">The ply-wood is a thin plank of wood, which is made with one thin sheet to another thin sheet of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Obviously the main material is wood used for making wooden crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">A hammer, various kinds of chisels, a sharp and hard knife, a hand-saw, a back-saw, a frat-saw, a ruler, brushes etc (Look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="341">A frat is one kind of very thin saw in a frame to make a design in the plank of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Let us make a very easy wooden-doll.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">A woman with a basket, take 3 c.m thick, 3 c.m. wide and 15 c.m. long piece of soft wood for this doll.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">It was said before that Kadam or Shimul-Wood is suitable for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Make the four edges of the wood blunt by rubbing it with a chisel.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Then cut the wood until it becomes even and as round as a ruler.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">After making it round the piece of wood will be 3 c.m. diameter and 15 c.m. long.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Make a mark around the piece of wood so that the wood becomes two pieces of c.m. each.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">The mark is in the middle, so there is c.m. on both the sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Now you can find there are four parts of wood (Look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="351">In the first part is c.m. and in the fourth part is 7c.m.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Cut around all marking of the wood a little bit deep with a hace-saw.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">The depth of every cutting will be the same around the wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Look at the picture very well and cut all the notches (curves) with sharp chisel according to the design of the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">You may use a sharp knife to make the notches (curves) if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Having notched the wood, almost a form has been made like a doll, as a woman is with a basket.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Isn't it ?</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Rub the doll and make it smooth, at first with broken piece of glass, then with a glue (Sherish) paper by rubbing.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Then wipe the doll with a rag, so that there remains no dust on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Here it may be mentioned that a doll can be made in five or six minutes with a carpenter's turning machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">1f you can learn how to use this machine, in future, you will be able to make many things like this.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Now the doll has to be coloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Which colour will you put in the doll ?</sent>
				<sent id ="364">What next ?</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Then the hair, eyes and nose with black colour lips with red and the basket with brown colour will you make it ?</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Yes, your choice is very nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Do you like this now?</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Put light yellow colour on the whole body of the doll and leave it to dry, before putting on other colours.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">After that put colours for face, eyes, nose, hair, saree, etc. Use thin and thick brushes to colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">After colouring look what a beautiful doll you have made !</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Now let us make an easy and simple bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Three pieces of soft wood will be needed for the bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Long, for the tail very thin (less than c.m.) 3 c.m. wide and 5 c.m. long pieces of wood are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Take a 2 c.m. thick and 2 c.m. a long soft piece of wood and make a round roller with a chisel.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Cut one side evenly with a chisel after making it round.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">The depth must be even around all sides, but be careful, so that the roller does not become two separate pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Make the head with the beak with that 3 c.m. of ruler pushing a chisel slowly according to the design of the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Then, taking 5c.m. measurement make a deep notch around it with a hack-saw.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Make the body of the bird in the same process of the head, pushing the chisel.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Both of the things are the same, only difference is, one is big and the other is small.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Dolls can be made with carpenter's turning-machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">In the same process birds can also be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Before you can learn how to use of turning machine, you will have to make these by cutting it with your hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">After making the body make the tail of the bird with the thin piece of wood looking at the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">The head with its beak, body and the tail of the bird has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Now if you join these three parts, the bird will be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Make a notch at the back-end of the body as shown in the picture with a hack -say, to fix the tail.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Scrap the back-end of beak to fit it into the notch tightly and neatly.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Make all parts smooth with glue paper before fixing them.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Now it is the time to join the parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Pely-gum is the most suitable glue for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">If it is not available then use aika-gum.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">You have to be very fast if you use pely - gum because, it dries very quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">There is no need to hurry, if the work is done with aika-gum.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Put glue on the even portions of the head and the body, then put the head on the body pressing them.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">After joining three parts, keep it for three days to dry be careful and see that it is not moved.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">The bird has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Now it has to be arranged so that the bird can be kept in a sitting position.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">The easiest arrangement is to fix it on a piece of wood with a screw.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Make a hole under the bird's belly with a drill, wood with a screw.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">Your bird has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">Next it is to be coloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Put colour of your liking on the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Put red or orrange colour on the beak.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Draw eyes and wings with black colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">You may draw the lines for tail and feathers also.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">Do you remember which kind of colour you had procured before on the bird put?</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Like the doll and bird, a wooden horse have easily be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Take a 2 c.m. thick, l 0 c.m. wide and 16 c.m long piece of soft wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Make it smooth on both the sides by rubbing with a glue-paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Take a paper of the same size of the wood and draw a picture of a horse on the paper, just like the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Copy the picture of the horse on the wood with a carbon paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">Then cut off the horse with a hack saw.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">The step by step procedure of making the horse it shown in the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Make curve around the form of the horse and the back-sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Then make intoc.m. the part of the mane of the horse, intoc.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">m. by cutting it thinly leaving two ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Cutting the tail make it 1 c.m. thin.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">The forehead will be thicker than the part of the face.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Make the neck a little bit thin and rounds under the face.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Make a little notch in the middle- lower front to show two legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Do the same for the back, two legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Make two ears separate cutting in the middle above the prehea upto the mane.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">When ever you cut the wood to make its shape, cut both the sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Then your horse will look the same from both the sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">Fix your horse with this nails from the feet on a 1 c.m. thick 5 c.m. wide and 1 c.m. long wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Now your horse will not fall if it is moved any where.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Make the horse smooth with a glue paper and colour it as you like with Chinese lacquer or enamel paint.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">The designed things made of wood can be used in various ways e.g. by drawing designs on wood or by cutting them.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">You will be able to make various kinds of things, if once you can learn the technique of cutting designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">You will be able to make things to decorate houses as well as make beautifully designed furnitures panel of doors and the other useful things.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">You will have to draw the picture of the design on a paper before cutting the design.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Draw a design as big as you want the design to be.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Begin your work with a coarse design, at first, you will be able to make fine designs after obtaining the skill of work.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">The design will have to be made by cutting off unnecessary parts of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">There will be no possibility of making a mistake.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Take a c.m. piece of wood or a three to four layered good ply-wood to cut the design.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Make both the sides smooth with a glue-paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Copy picture from the paper-design on the wood with a carbon-paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Mark cut filling unnecessary parts of design with a pencil or a pen.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Make a small hole near to the edge of every unnecessary part inserting a frat-saw.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Now is the time to cut the design.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Learn, how to use the frat-saw from your drawing-teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">A frat-saw is a framed way fine and sharp saw to cut our a design of a thin wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">This framed saw can be opened from the frame and again it can be framed and can be fully stretched out.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">It can be slacked too.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">All these can be done by moving two nuts of the ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Let us begin to cut the design.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Make the front head of the frat-saw loose inserting into one of the hole, fix it again in the frame.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Stretch it as much as you can by moving the nut.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">The saw may break if it is stretched very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">On the other hand if it is loose it, may be broken ,while cutting the design.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">So do the work very carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">Now cut off the unnecessary parts with the frat saw.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Take out the frat-saw, making it loose, after cutting off one part inset it into another hole and fix it again.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">Cut off every unnecessary part as the first one.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">Now cut off the edges of the design with the frat-saw and take out the whole design.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Your design had been completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Then make one rough side of the design smooth with a glue paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Put transparent varnish on the smooth side of the design keeping its original wood-colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">The design may be used for the decoration of your house or it may be used to incerase the beauty of furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">We are using paper for the necessity of our everyday life in so many ways that it can not be described in words.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">If it is said that the paper is the source and means of civilization, it won't be very wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Papers are used from educational purposes to grocery packets (containers) and for every moment of our daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">You have learnt the skills of a few crafts with paper in class six and seven.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">This time, let us learn a few necessary things which are made with papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">These will be needed for yourselves as well as can be used to earn money.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Though the work is not as much interesting as making.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Toys that can help to make some money.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">Certainly you are eager to know what these works are?</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Let us begin with a very easy one.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">At first it will begin with a grocer container then an envelope.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">After making these, we can learn to bind books, and make exercise books and album.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">No work is insignificant, so don't look down on knowing about the container and envelope.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">You know different kinds of paper is used to make different objects all works can not be done with all papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">The manila-papers, different standard brown papers, white papers, off-set papers and many other papers are used for envelopes according to the uses.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">board-papers, paste-board papers are used for binding books.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">The gray coloured hard-board papers, paste-board papers, designed-marbel-papers are used for making albums.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">The paper that you will use is not the important thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">What is to be made and in which process in the main thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">Then let us begin the task.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">The necessary papers and boards to make the object, the rexine cloth foam needle, gum etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">two broad rules made of wood and still scissor, knife, a cutter a utensil to make a hole a punching machine will be needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">The paper container can be make of different sizes and forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">Now let us make an ordinary one.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">You will be able to make different sizes and forms with your skill later, after learning to make this paper-container.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">You must take paper of necessary measurement, so that no paper is wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">The paper will be part wide and part long.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">The container will look nice if this proportional measurement is taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">You can take other measurement also.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">About the papers that are needed has been said before.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">Take the paper of your liking from those and cut according to the measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">Put thick-gum made of flour upto I c.m. on one side of the paper in lengthwise.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">Then put this on another side and join it.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Fix the joint keeping it in the middle by pressing (Look at the picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Then fold it keeping the joints in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">Now hold it by pressing keeping your left hand's finger and make the joints straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">Then fold both of the layer together in 1/3 of the folded paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">The process is shown in the picture gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Look at the picture and set a square piece of paper on the triangle part of the folded paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">The method of making paper tube container has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">If a square paper is put under the container will be equal around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">The shape of foldings under containers have to be according to the differences of papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">Certainly, you will be able to make various forms of paper-containers following the pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">The various kinds of envelopes are needed for different occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">The papers are also different according to the necessity.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">The envelopes are made of various kinds of papers as hard, thick, thin.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">white, coloured, smooth, rough etc. Various standard of envelopes can be found in the market for invitations and greeting cards.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">So envelopes are needed to send cards of various standards.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">Various kinds of envelopes are needed for the office works.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">It depends on you which kind or standard of envelope you want to make.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">Here, the processes has been shown only.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">To make an envelope is very easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">1c.m. for every joint and 2 c.m. 3 c.m. for the cover of the envelope will be needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">All envelopes are to be made by joining diagonally before.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">The use of this kind of envelope is out dated now a days.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">Because, there is trouble and waste of paper to make this kind of envelope.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">Yet, the process is shown here to be learnt.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">The picture of three different processes have been given here step by step.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">Looking at the pictures you will be able to make three kinds of envelopes of any measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">If you make the forma with hard-board for every one;</sent>
				<sent id ="522">then you will be able to make many envelopes of same size together in a very short time.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
