<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-bdGlobal-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.036</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">240</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3139</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1174</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t98">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Bangladesh is one of the highest disaster prone areas of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">We know that the whole world is undergoing a climatic change due to temperature rise on the earth surface, or global warming.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">This climatic change causes less crop productions in the Torrid Zone during the dry season.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Sudden cold or hot wave, fog, hailstorm, land sliding, and salinity at the costal belt are also some by products of this problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Some of these changes are already evident in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The earth has flora and fauna as it has suitable environment for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Water, air, and other necessary elements together constitute that suitable environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Due to global warming that environment is hugely endangered.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Let us know at this stage what global warming means.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The huge boom of population, deforestation, mills and factories along with the engine run vehicles are destroying the balance in ecology.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">As a result, many problems are being created.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">One of those difficult problems is green house effect.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Green house is a kind of covering made of different types of gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It works as heat maximiser.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">It creates a kind of covering or shield around the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Look at the picture beside.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Here the green house gas has formed a layer around the globe.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">What's its impact?</sent>
				<sent id ="19">This layer absorbs heat from the sun and then scatters it on the surface of the globe.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Thus the heat of the world increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">This increasing heat is known as global warming.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Due to this problem the air and the earth are getting warm gradually and the sea surface is rising.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The main elements of the air are nitrogen and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Besides, a little amount of carbon-di-oxide, methane, and nitras oxide are also available in the air along with some vapour and ozone gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">These less important gases are called green house gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Due to these gases, Carbon di Oxide has increased 25% in the atmosphere in last one century.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Similarly, nitras oxide has increased 19% and mithen has increased 100%.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">These are the chief reasons of global warming.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">There are other reasons also liable for global warming.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Our household items such as refrigerator, air conditioner, plastic items, foam, aerosol, etc. produce a kind of green house gas (HFC).</sent>
				<sent id ="31">This is destroying the ozone layer of the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">There are many layers in the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The closest layer to the earth is troposphere which is extended up to 12 km from the sea level.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The next layer is ozone layer and it is extended up to 20 kilometers.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The ozone layer absorbs the ultra violet rays of the sun and saves the flora of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Due to ozone layers being destroyed, there is a rise of 5% ultra violet ray in the earth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">This too is a reason of global warming.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Besides, the developed countries are also liable for green house effect.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">They are destroying ecology by their increasingly high use of fossil fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Many of these countries are using nuclear plants that produce huge waste.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">This is another factor for green house gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">not only that the industrial waste and black fumes produce loads of mercury, lead, and arsenic that too are liable for global warming.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">We all know that the oceans are the lungs of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">They have significant roles in controlling world temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">But they are gradually getting polluted as radioactive wastes are thrown there.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It causes polluted vapours that mix up with the air and destroys the ozone layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Though Bangladesh is a small country but once it had many rivers, ponds, canals, marshy Green house gas around the earth and rise lands etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">They had vital roles in managing temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Currently many of them are either dried up, or thoroughly filled up.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Many of them are used for waste management.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Thus rivers are being abused in many developing countries that also results in global warming.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Deforestation is another important factor in this regard.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">We know, the green trees take carbon di oxide from the environment and leaves out oxygen for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">But due to massive deforestation, the amount of oxygen is getting minimized and the amount of carbon di oxide is maximised in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">As a result, the amount of harmful CFC has risen up to damage the ozone layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">It is true that the present world is getting urbanised too rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">People are rushing to cities and towns for work.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Therefore, cities are getting overburdened with extra population.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">This huge population needs extra vehicles too.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Emission of black fumes and carbon di oxide from these is vehicles also damaging the ozone layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">In addition, artificial irrigation, use of chemical fertilizers, and pesticides in agriculture have roles in damaging ozone layer which ultimately contribute to global warming.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">We have learnt about climatic change in Bangladesh at class seven.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">One of the main reasons of climatic change is global warming.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In fact, global arming has panicked the whole world including Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Below is a discussion on how global warming may affect the ecology and life style in Bangladesh:</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The level of sea water will increase due to global warming.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">As a result, sea water will enter the costal areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Due to salinity in sea water, trees and forests, fisheries and crops will be massively ruined.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">This situation is already evident in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Global is already damaging the mangrove forest in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">We know that the biodiversity in the Sundarbans is already at stake.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Salinity has increased at agricultural lands in the costal areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Therefore, lands are losing fertility.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">It has affected the agricultural products.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Not only that, many species of trees and sweet water fishes are lost in the mean time.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">All these have adverse impact on people's life and livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">People are going to cities for their survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">So the cities are getting over burdened.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">As the level of sea water is rising up, tidal waves are becoming higher than their natural size during tidal time.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Sometimes it takes the shape of tidal bores.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Sometimes depressions take place at the sea and turns to cyclones.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">We have heard the names of ayla and sidr.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">These two natural disasters have immensely ravaged lives, and resources at the costal areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">In addition, the entrance of saline water in large locality has ruined crops, houses and institutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">These areas have acute shortage of drinking water too.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Ayla and Sidr have devastated nearly one forth of the Sundarbans.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">They have affected our bio diversity and fisheries sector as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">As a result, human beings and other animals are suffering from several types of diseases such as cancer, skin diseases, and some others.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Global warming is also destroying the ecological balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The desertification of the northern part of Bangladesh is an example of this.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Global warming will result in flood, draught, and salinity.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">As a consequence, there will be shortage of food for livestock and different types of diseases will spread.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Considering all these negative aspects, we need to take caution to face the problems of climate change.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Disasters are of two kinds.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Natural disasters and man-made disasters.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Natural disasters take place suddenly and human beings are generally helpless here.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">However, man-made disasters are results of some activities done by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">We can avoid them or save ourselves from their adverse impact by being conscious and careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This type of disaster destroys lives and disrupts natural life-styles.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It also disturbs ecological balance and increases restlessness in a society.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Some of the man-made disasters are war, communal riot, deforestation, water logging through obstacles at natural flow of rivers, and desertification, fire etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">On the other hand, when any natural accident or destruction hampers the normal flow of life, we call it natural disaster.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Flood, cyclone, tidal bore, tornado, earthquake, draught, river erosion, tsunami, volcanic eruptions are some examples of natural disasters.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Natural disaster usually takes place as a consequence of a country's geographical location, climatic impact or overall natural environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The geographical location of Bangladesh, her climate, soil condition, rivers, canals etc. are favorable for natural disasters.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">This is why, every year the country is affected by large or small natural disasters such as floods, cyclones, tidal bores, tornado etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Tsunami is a natural disaster.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">It's a Japanese word which means waves of the sea shore.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">These waves dive on the costal belt with strong current ranging from 800 to 1300 kilometres per hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">As a result, within a very short time houses and buildings, road or rail or other communications, electricity, or business centres can be completely destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">A huge Tsunami hit the north-east area of Japan in It was the result of an 8.9 Richter Scale earthquake under the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">It hit an area which was 400 kilometres away from the capital city of Japan, Tokyo.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">As a consequence, five nuclear electric plants in Japan were highly damaged.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Radio-activity from these nuclear plants started spreading through air and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">It created huge health hazards for human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Thousands of railway commuters were missing and many ships were drowned due to this disaster.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The sudden fall of a mass of earth from a hill or mountain is called landslide or landfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Hills composed of sand stones or heavy mud may have landslide during intense rain or long time rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It also takes place for massive deforestation and leveling of hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Landslide cause problems for the people who live beneath the hills as their houses can be buried down for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">This problem is very common in Chittagong, Cox's Bazar, Bandarban, Sylhet, Netrokona, and some other districts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Here many lives are lost and many houses are destroyed due to this problem every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Trees and forests keep environment and climate favourable.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">For a good balance in ecology, a country should have 25% forests of its total area.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Unfortunately now a days people are destroying forests for their own interest such as making houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The amount of forests in Bangladesh is presently 16% which is far below the necessity.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">This has adverse impact on ecological balance and climate.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">This results in less amount of rain in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It increases the risk of desertification too.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Rivers, canals, ponds, and other marshy lands preserve the rain water and keep the soil moist.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Again water being dried up with the sun rays causes vapour, which ultimately causes rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Moreover, water basins are living places for fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">But those too are being filled for human habitation, and mills and factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">As a result, we are not getting as much fish as we used to get earlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">It is previously said that these water basins are very useful for controlling temperature and keeping ecological balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">However, since they are being filled up, the country is suffering from water logging and flood even with a little rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Fire may take place as a natural disaster as well as a disaster caused by carelessness or an accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Sometimes fire takes place at forests in many countries because immense heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">It's called wildfire.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">It destroys forest resources as well as bio diversity.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Wildfire does not take place in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">So we do not consider fire as a natural disaster.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">In Bangladesh, fire takes place due to carelessness or as an accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">This accident usually takes place in mills and factories, oil refineries, garments industries, jute mills, chemical godowns, residential buildings, shops, offices, and commercial centres.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Recently the fire caused from a chemical godown at Nimtali, Dhaka has taken away many lives leaving many people physically challenged.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Many people have turned to have-nots as a consequence of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">We have already known that due to geographical location and natural characteristics Bangladesh has been one of the most natural disaster prone areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">For ages the people of this country have been fighting with natural disasters for their survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Most of the cases, natural disasters cannot be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">However, the amount of death and destructions in these disasters can be minimized to a certain extent with proper planning and preparedness.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Use high lands as much as possible to build houses, and animal sheds.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Build houses within embankments in river bank areas and within enclosures in costal areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Plant bamboo, banana, dholkolmi, dhoincha and similar trees around your house.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">They can defend currents of any flood to a large extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Make an extra roof or platform inside your house and preserve foods, seeds, and other necessary items there.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">If flood/cyclone water enters inside the house, they are not damaged.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Make pond sides high, and install tube wells and latrines at high places as much as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">If necessary, use extra pipes to make tube wells high.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Stock some dry foods such as steamed rice (chira), puffed rice (muri), khoi, molasses (gur), oral saline and some life saving emergency medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Preserve some animal foods to be used during flood situation too.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Inspire each of your family members to learn how to swim.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Repair your house and replace the old poles (khuti) before the cyclone period or the monsoon starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Know where the nearest shelter is.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Make a habit of savings.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Learn the danger signals and their explanations.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Keep in regular touch with local disaster management committees and volunteers.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Take combined initiatives to repair dams, bridge, roads, and culverts of your locality.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Have regular meetings with local disaster management committee, social organisations, and volunteers to teach local people what to do to prevent disasters.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Monitor water gain and loss regularly during the flood time.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Be attentive to cyclone forecasts.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Wrap household items with polythene or any other water resistant material and place them on extra roofs/platform inside the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Pour some water in a pitcher, and close its mouth with a lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Cover the pitcher properly with a piece of polythene and then preserve it under the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Preserve some dry foods such as chira, muri, gur in the same process.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Shift livestock such as cows, goats, hens, and ducks etc. to high lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Take shelter in the nearest shelter centre.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">You don't need to go to any shelter centre for signal number 1, 2, 3, and 4 for any cyclone or tidal bore.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Take safe drinking water only.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Water from any tube well not submerged in flood water is safe for drinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">If necessary boil water properly, or use water purification tablets or potash alum (fitkiri) to have safe drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Take special care for children.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Take extra care for ill, challenged, pregnant, and old people too.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">If there are no boats for communications, use banana trees to make local rafts (vela).</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Take necessary steps for vaccination to guard against infectious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Take social measures to ensure security in shelter centres.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Ensure latrine facilities and sewerage system in shelter centres.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Take sympathetic and human views of all instead of being attentive to your own advantages and disadvantages.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Leave shelter centres and come back to own places after the flood or cyclone is over.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Do not leave shelter centres immediately after the cyclone stops.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Often there is a reverse gust of storm after some time of the first attack.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">This reverse storm along with the tidal bore usually drives everything to the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Repair and clean your home.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Use bleaching powder if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Give primary aid if anyone is injured during the disaster.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">If the injury is of serious type, take him or her to nearest hospital for treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">If anyone dies, take initiative to burry him/her immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">If any animal or birds dies, bury in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Cooperate relief or medical teams to support the real victims.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Work together with other in the society for post disaster management.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">If there is any sign for river erosion, steps should be taken immediately to save life and resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">It is better to decide where to take shelter if there are symptoms for river erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">We should shift children, elderly people, pregnant women, new mothers (proshuti), and challenged persons either to safe places or relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">We should also shift livestock such as hens, ducks, cows, and goats to safe places.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">In this process, the valuable items of home and important documents should be shifted to safe places too.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">If river erosion is evident, better to sell out the trees, and vegetables at homesteads.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The kitchen and animal shelter should be shifted to safe places beforehand.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Even the living rooms should be shifted to safe places before the erosion is too close.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">There are few other things to do for our safety before the river erosion starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Anything built near the rivers should be portable in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">We should plant such trees in river erosion areas whose roots can enter deep down the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The speed of water vehicles should be restricted too so that they cannot create any strong wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">We should be always vigilant to monitor the rivers once there are symptoms for river erosion.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">We must stand beside the victims after the erosion takes place.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">We should help the victims to reconstruct their houses and repair the cracks made in damaged bridges.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Sometimes the northern part of our country faces draught.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">We can take some precautions to face this situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Ponds and canals can be excavated in these areas before the draught starts.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">We should take initiatives to reserve rain waiter as much as we can.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">We have to preserve some dry foods and save cash money for draught period.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Foods should be preserved for livestock too.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">We can install some tube wells in our own locality and select draught resisting crops to be cultivated in the draught prone areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The victims families should find out some alternatives sources of income.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">People should be calculative in using water and livestock should be kept away from watersides.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">After the draught is over, organic fertilizers should be used instead of chemical fertilizers.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Weeds and wild plants should be cleaned to avoid water misuse.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">This time land should be cultivated in depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Every house should have an emergency exit other than the main entrance.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Moreover, there should be some first aid items, few helmets, and a torch light at each family.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">A strong table should be kept at each house to take shelter underneath during the earthquake time.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Heavy furniture should be kept on the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">All electric and gas connections should be switched off after use.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">During earthquake we should take shelter beneath a strong table or any strong furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Without being upset we should stay at home until the quake stops completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">All electric and gas connections should be switched off immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">If there is sufficient open space beside the homestead, shelter should be taken there immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Commuters should ask drivers to stop vehicles instantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">We must not use any lift during this time.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">After the earthquake is over, we should take injured persons to the nearest hospitals for treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">We should do the best to participate in the rescue work.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Measures should be taken to ensure temporary shelters, foods, and water for the distressed people.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
