<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-bdGlobal-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.765</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">206</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3018</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1153</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t87">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">After the fall of the Pal Dynesty, the Sen Dynesty ruled Bangla.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Comming from the north the kings of the Sen Dynesty ushered in the era of rule of Bengal by foreigners.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Ikhtiaruddin Mohammad Bin Bakhtiar Khiljee occupied Bengal after defeating the Sens.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He was a Turkish military ruler who hankered after riches.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The communication of Bengal with Turkey started after the conquest of Bengal by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Bengal also came in touch with the religion of Islam and the greater Persian civilization.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Fakaruddin Mobarak Shah established the system of having an Independent Sultan in Bangal in 1338 A.D which lasted for 200 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">It is to be noted that none of the Sultans was Bangalee.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">They made the Persian language Farci the court language of Bengal and this lasted for a considerable period of time even after the British take-over.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">During British rule, Man Singh, the Commander of Moghal emperor Akbar made Bengal a Suba or a Province of Delhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Jahangir ascended the throne of Bengal after the death of his father Akbar.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">His ascension to the throne brought about a great change in Bengal-Delhi relationship.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Jahangir started to take a huge amount of money from the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">exchequer of Bengal for meeting expenses of war, industry, literature and luxury and recreation.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">By the end of 1678, Subedar Sayesta Khan had sent cash worth Tk 30 lac and gold worth Tk 4 lac to Delhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">This trend simply increased at later times.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Subedar Sujauddin sent Tk 14 crore and 63 lac to Delhi during his long 11-year tenure.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">One can better imagine how much this big amount would be in today's market.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">A huge amount of money and wealth were sent from Bengal in this manner for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In Economics this is called capital outflow.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">As a result of this, a powerful trade revolution started from 14th century.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Then, the internal economic condition and economic organizations of those countries started to be stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">So it became important for them to look for raw materials and markets for selling their products.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">In 1499, Vasco-de-Gama, a portugeese sailor reached kalikot port of North India.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">This incident gave a chance for other countries to contest in the competition of expanding trade and commerce in India.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Al Bukark an experienced sailor, captured the entire trade of India by taking control of the Indian Ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">A peace agreement was signed in 1648 among some European warring nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">This agreement is called West Fallier accord.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">India became the target of many of these nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">The Silk and many other fine clothes and the different spices of Bengal were chief attractions for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">This brought about a momentum in the trade of Bengal after a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Export income of Bengal stood at about 2 lac pound/18 lac taka only from England during 4 years from 1680-83.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The foreign merchants established big industries and earned a huge profit;</sent>
				<sent id ="34">they could do so by combining their capital with technical knowledge and by employing local workers to do hard work.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">With the passage of time, English merchants became more important than the Portuguese.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Besides, the Persian and the Dutch merchants also established industries and conducted business in Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">A short description of foreign merchant's investment and business can be had even from the description of the foreign tourists.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">French tourist Barniyar wrote in 1666 The Dutch sometimes employed 07-08 hundred workers in their Silk factory at Kashimbazar.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The English and the merchants of other nations also conducted business of this type.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">French tourist Barniyar also mentioned 22 thousand balls of Silk were produced every year only at Kashimbazar.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Running business in this way, the English merchants realised that they would get maximum Permanent Settlements.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">During this time, European trade centres at Kolkata, Chandan Nagar, Chuchura and Kashimbazar started to flourish rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">With the flourishment of their trade centers, the English merchants also started to smuggle capital from Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Clive himself proudly informed British Parliament of this abundance of wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">William Hejej, the governor of English companies in Bengal came at Hogley.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The mughals had fought several battles with the English from 1687 to 1690 and finally the English could ensure their commercial benefit.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">They got permission for running their business as well as keeping their soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">At the same time, the British established their prominence over other contesting European powers.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The torture and oppression of the people started to increase with the capital smuggling.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">That is why we see frequent revolts of farmers to during The Mughal period.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">We have read in books about the cheap prices of commodities during the reign of Subedar Sayesta Khan.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The poverty of the people at that time reached such a stage that they were unable to purchase even those cheap commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The unbelievable cheap prices of essential commodities including rice and cows and goats could not give benefit the common man.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Sayesta Khan's greed for money was so great.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">That one English business man wrote in 1676 that his employees exploited the common people at every step.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">They even monopolised, the trading of fodder.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">According to another business man the amount Sayesta Khan amassed as subedar of Bengal for 13 years was very rare at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He was the owner of 38 crore taka.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">His daily income was Tk. 2 lac!</sent>
				<sent id ="60">At that time, the Marathees emerged as a power in West-India.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">They also started to attack Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">People lived is great fear of Marathee attacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">People's fear of them can better be understood from a folk rhyme.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Mothers of Bengal still use this rhyme when they lull their children to sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The rhyme is such: Children sleep and the area becomes quiet only when the Marathee plunderers (Borgees) arrive.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The aged Nawab Alibardee Khan died at a time when the power of the English was rapidly increasing due to their cunning tricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Bengal was also shattered at that time by the attacks of the marathees.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">One was the difficult task of facing the English with their increasing power and addressing the attacks of marathees;</sent>
				<sent id ="69">the other was to resist the conspiracy of his eldest-materral aunt Ghasety Begum the commander-in-chief Mir Jafar Ali Khan and some other close associates.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Siraj had also to face a third opposition.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">A power-greedy Indian business community emerged at big business centers with the expansion of economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The Marwarees who came to Bengal from Rajputna belong to this community.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">They also joined the English in the plot against the Nawab for their commercial benefit.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Thus began the era of direct colonial rule.Now we need to look back once again to understand the causes of colonial rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">So they held a negative attitude and indifference to their rulers.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The death of the Nawab and the end of independence had no impact on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The poverty of the people was very acute total inertia prevailed in the villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">So, the people had no interest in utilizy the opportunities created by the expansion of trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The people had neither political nor social ability to comprehend the increasing economic and military power of the English.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The internal intrigue and conspiracy among rulers of Bengal were too deep-rooted for the young and inexperienced Nawab fathom to understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Some countries of Europe had strong naval power.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">They aimed at expanding trade and commerce.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The eastern countries of the world, especially India were their target.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">With this purpose, The British East India Company was established in England in 1600A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">This company established a commercial base at Hoogley in 1651 and at Kashimbaazar.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The Dutch East India Company also entered Bengal in 1630, but could not survive in the face of competition with The British East India Company.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The Dutch company left India after some years and proceeded towards Indonesia-Malaysia.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The French also arrived in Bengal in 1664 and established The French East India Company.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">This company made a strong base at Chandan nagar and Chuchura.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The French were also defeated by The British Company and left India ending their 100-year old trade and proceeded towards Indo-China.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">The British East India Company started to strengthen their hold gradually and at one time they started to influence the administration of the Nawab.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The officers of The British East India Company took advantage of the dispute.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The British traders joined with the conspirators against the young Nawab.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Prominent among these conspirators were Ghosety Begum, Mir Jafar, Mir Kadim and some members of rich elites like Womichand, Jagat Shedh and Raj Ballav.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Watson and Clive, two British commanders made the most of them internal conflict.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">They brought soldiers from Madras and occupied Kolkata.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">After this, Clive wanted to occupy the Nawab's capital at Morshidabad and with this purpose faced the Nawab's army in a mango orchard at Morshidabad.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The Nawab was brutally killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Though Mir Jafar was made Nawab after this, the real power was exercised by the cunning and daring British Commander Clive.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">At last Clive officially got the Dewani-meaning the ownership of Bengal, Bihar and Orissa from the emperor of Delhi in 1765 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The task of collecting revenue went to the hands of the English after they had got the Dewani of this area.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The English also had their control over administration .Clive continued dual administration in Bengal for some period.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The English had made the Nawab inactive by capturing the revenue and administration.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The English, after getting authority of collecting revenue, increased the amount of tax of the subjects and they gave maximum pressure to collect additional tax.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Apart from this, the country faced a great famine due to draught for 3 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">This famine in known in history as the Chhiyattorer monontar meaning the famine of Bengalee year.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">About one crore people died in this famine, this amount was one third of the total population of the then Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">It goes without saying that the actual number of deaths was greater than this.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The prominent governors of East India Company at the initial stage were: Lord Waylesly, Lord William Bentink, Lord Hardinge, Lord Dalhousie etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">They adopted different plans to make English rule permanent in India.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Though they worked to exploit the people, even then the countrymen were benefited by some of their work.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">A class of zamindars was created by implementing Permanent Settlement in 1793.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">and zamindars always remained loyal to the British.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">British authority in the control of administration was ensured.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Administrative offices, educational and commercial institutions were shifted to Kolkata from Murshidabad.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">This shifting made Kolkata an important city.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Later, Kolkata was made capital of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">But it is true that English governors such as Lord William Bentink and Lord Hardinge took steps to expand education and introduce modern science.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Thus, a new educated civil society emerged in the country, but the greater Bengali community was oppressed by the British rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The British East India Company did not stop even after getting the control of Bangal - Bihar-Orissa.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The Mughal empire faced a crisis after the death of emperor Aurongzeb.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Some Nawabs and local Kings started to contest the power of the Mughal Empire.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Thus, the throne of Delhi became weaker consequently.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Company officers tried to expand their control in different fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">A mutiny spread among sepoys in different barracks of British controlled region in 1857.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Sepoy Mongol Pandey and Habildar Rajob Ali led this mutiny in Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The rulers of different areas of India who wanted freedom joined their hands with the sepoys in this mutiny.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Some of this group are Queen Luxmibhai of Jensey and Tatiya Tupee of Moharastra.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Delhi-monarch Bahadur Shah Jafar also supported the Sepoys.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">But the English could control this mutiny as they had sophisticated weapons and skilled soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Their tricks and barbarism also helped them to this effect.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">After this incident, Indian rule act was passed in the British Parliament on 2 nd August 1858.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The rule of East India Company came to an end with the promulgation of Indian -rule act.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">State power of India was given to The British king.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">One minister of The British cabinet was appointed as the secretary of state of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">He would run the administration of India with the help and suggestion of a 15 member advisory board.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">According to this law, the governor general was called Viceroy.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The Vicery was the representative of The British King.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Lord Canning was appointed as the first viceroy.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">In this way, The British Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">established their total control over India in The British parliament instructed The Indian Govt. to form a representative parliament.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">A Declaration was also made to form a Bengal parliament.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">the numbers of members was increased to 21 in During the initial stage there was no provision for these members to be elected by voting.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Later on, this parliament became a democratic institution and this system was then introduced throughout India including Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">But, the control of The British Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">over this parliament remained intact.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The British govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">decided to divide Bengal into two provinces.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Demarcation was made to this effect in The division of Bengal in 1905 is the result of this plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">East Bengal got a separate identity from this date.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">A great majority number of people during The British rule (1858-1947) were farmers;</sent>
				<sent id ="152">on the other hand, a small minority was the privileged zamindar class.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The number of people connected with cottage and small industries was very few.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Agriculture, the backbone of economy was almost ruined during The British rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The same was the case with the weaving industry which was once very famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The business community of Bengal was not organized.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The condition of Bengal in industry was also not worth mentioning.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The women-folk lagged behind due to social norms and superstitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The middle class society also could not become powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">At that time, Britain was the richest country of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">While India was a British colony- and a place of exploitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">an English educated class that would remain loyal to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">For the same reason, Sanskrit College was established for the Hindus.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">A new inspiration aroused the local people due to coming in touch with modern education.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">People started to question the age-old beliefs, norms and culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Movement against Sateedah started from the Hindus; opinions were formed in favour of widow- 8 Bangladesh and Global Studies marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The country witnessed a new tide which was limited but very effective in changing the age-old beliefs of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The British established Schools throughout the entire country; some colleges were also established for higher studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">At last Kolkata University was established in 1857 as a seat of higher education and research.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The establishment of a Printing Press at Shreerampur in 1821 also played a positive role in inspiring the people of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The printing press facilitated the printing of books and thus to spread out education among the educated people.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The sensitive people now started to cast their attention to the development of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">They started to criticise the injustice of the rulers in the same way as they made self-criticism about the injustice of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Many came forward to mould public opinion by publishing news papers in Bangla language.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Raja Ram Mohan Roy and Ishwar Chandra Biddasagar devoted themselves to reform the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Derojeo, Biddasagar and others devoted themselves to the task of spreading and earning knowledge with an open mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Again, Bangla language flourished much in the hands of Biddasagar, Bankimchandra, Michael Modhusudhan and Rabindra Nath Tagore.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The contirbution of Mir Mosharraf Hossain, Sharatchandra chattapadhay and Kazi Nazrul Islam to Bengalee literatere is also immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Though this renaissance / reawakening of Bangalee people happened at Kolkata city, the entire Bengal witnessed its indirect result.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The flourishment of nationalistic feelings inspired by patriotism is another hallmark of modern education during colonial rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The desire for independence and democratic rights started to spring up in people's mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Local people raised their voice against the plan of dividing Bengal in 1905.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">The British were compelled to annul the division of Bengal in the face of movement against the division of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">At this, the patriotic feelings of the Bengalee people became stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">People became interested in taking part in Sadeshi movement and as whole a feeling of patriotism and political awareness was visible among the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">At this stage, many young persons became inclined towards armed revolution.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The Muslim league was established in Dhaka in 1906 with a view to focusing the rights and demands of Muslim community.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Saraj movement, non co-operation movement, armed revolution in Bengal happened in line with Sadeshi movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The British colonial rule came to an end due to these continuous movements.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The Indian subcontinent became independent in 1947 and as such India and Pakistan came into being.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Anti- British movement was conducted in entire India.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">This movement was very strong in Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">But the leadership of All-India politics at last did not remain in the hands of Bangalees.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">As a result the Bangalees could not make their own future state though they actively took part in the anti-British movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The British applied their Divide and rule policy very keenly.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The clash and rivalry between the Congress and the Muslim league leadership added fuel to the fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">The common people of Bengal were divided by the clash between the congress and the Muslim league.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Both the congress and the Muslim league deviated from non-colonial politics.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">At the instigation of Mohammad Ali Jinnah, Bangalee leader A.K.Fazlul Huq placed the formula of dividing India on the basis of a two nation theory.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">A.K. Fazlul Huq tabled this formula at a Muslim league conference held in Lahore.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">At this, the people of Bengal were divided on the basis of their relgion Muslim or Hindu.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">India was divided in 1947 on the basis of the two nation theory of Lahore proposal.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">East Bengal became independent from the British as a part of eastern Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">But this was not the true independence of the people of eastern Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The Pakistani rulers enforced their torture and exploitation over the people of eastern Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Truly speaking, the people of East Bengal had to start their movement again from the 14th August, 1947 to achieve independence in the real sense.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
