<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-bdGlobal-11</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.81</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">174</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2121</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">809</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t89">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">A small section of people speaking in different languages have been living for a long time in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">In Bangladesh, the majority of tribal people live in the south-eastern part in the districts of Ranggamati, Bandarban and Khagrachhari.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The tribal people living in these districts are- Chakma, Marma, Tripura, Mrow, Tajanga, Bom, Pangkhuya, Chak, Khang, Khuni and Iusai.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">In blood and body structure, they are very much like Mongolian people.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Anthropologically mongolian people also live in the north-eastern part of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Among them, the Garo, the Hajang, the Coach are mentionable tribals living in grater Mymensingh.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The Khasio or Khasia and the Monipury tribals live in greater Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Many tribals also live in Dinajpur, Rangpur, Rajshahi, Bogra, Pabna in north-western part and in greater Sylhet in north eastern part of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Among them, are- Sawtal, Oraw, Mahali, Monda, Malpahry, Malu etc. Besies, Rakhain tribals live in the district of Cox's bazaar, Patuakhali and Barguna.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Some more tribal people live in Bangladesh, They are: Dalu, Hodi, Rajbangshi, Suja Burja Banshi barman, Banai, pathar, Mahatu and Kul.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The name of the main tribal people living in the districts of Rangamati, Bndarban and Khagrachhari in Bangladesh is Chakma.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The Chakmas are anthropologically Mongolian.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Their face is round, nose is flat, hair is straight and black, body colour is little yellowish.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Family is the fundamental part in Chakma society.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Some Chakma families together form Adam or Para.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Some Paras make a Mouja.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The chief of the Para is called Head Man.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The Head Man maintains peace and discipline in the Mouja.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Several moujas make a Chakma circle and the chief of this circle is Chakma king.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The post of king in the Chakma society is hereditary.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The Chakma society is patriarchal.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Father is the Head in a chakma family.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Next positon goes to mother and after the position of mother comes the position of the eldest son.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Agriculture is the main livelihood of the Chakma.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The method that they follow in cultivation is called Jum.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">At present, they are getting used to usual process of cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The Chakmas are Buddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">In most of their Villages, there is a Kiyang or Buddhist temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The Chakmas Observe their different important religious days with devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Among them, they gorgeously celebrate the birth and the death anniversaries and the dawn of Buddah as Baishakhi purnima.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Besides, they fly balloons in honour of Budda at the premises of kiyang or pagoda on the night of Maghee purnima.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The dead bodies are burnt in the Chakma society.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The Chakmas make clothes by weaving machine called Tat.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The dress worn by the Chakma girls is called Pinon and Hadi.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Previously, the Chakma men used to put on shirts made of thick thread, Dhuti, gamchha and a pagry in head.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">But at present they put on shirt, pant and lungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The Chakmas make beautiful baskets, fans, combs, flutes and musical instruments with bamboo and cane.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Rice is the staple food of the Chakma.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">They are fond of eating fish, meat and vegetable with rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Their favourite food is Bash kural.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The Chakma women cook different items with Bash kural.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The Chakma like to play Ha-du-du, wrestling (kusti) and Ghilkhara.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The little girls play Bouchil .</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The greatest festival of the Chakma is Biju.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The Chakma celebrate Biju festival on the last two days and the 1st day of Bengalee year.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The Chakma are comparatively more educated than other tribals.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The Garo are the majority among the tribals living in greater Mymensingh of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The Garos lived in Mymensingh, Modhupur of Tangail, Netrakona, Sherpur, Jamalpur and Shripur of Gazipur.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">There are some Garos in greater Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Outside Bangladesh, the Garo also live at Meghaloy and other states of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The Garo of Bangladesh are normally the inhabitants of plain land.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The primitive dwelling place of this tribe was in Tibet.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The Garo normally like to identify themselves as Mandi Anthropologically the Garos are Mongolians.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The Garo live in a matriarchal family.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Mother is the Head of family in their society.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The offsprings take the title of their mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The youngest daughter of the family is the heir to all properties of the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Father discharges the duty of managing the family in Garo society.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Mahari or the matriarchal identity is at the root of Garo society.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The significance of this mahari is unlimited in their social life; specially in marriage, inheritance, share of properties etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The chatchi(tribe) and Mahari (maternal tribe) of the Garo are fixed according to mother's tribe.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The marriage of man and women belonging to the same Mahari is forbidden in the Garo society.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The bride and the groom must belong to separate Mahari.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">There are a good number of groups in their society.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Five main groups are: Sangma, Marak, Momin , Shira and Abeng.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The Garo of Bangladesh generally live by agriculture.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">In the past, the Garo were engaged in Jum cultivation.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">At present, Jum cultivation is not done by the Garos living in plain lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">By cultivation, they normally produce mainly rice, vegetable of different kinds and pineapple.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The name of primitive religion of the Garo was Sang Sarek.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">In the past, the Garo worshipped different gods.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The name of their chief god was Tarara Rabuka.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The Garo used to worship Saljang or the sun, Chhuchhum or the moon, Guyera or the thunder, Man or the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">They used to observe religious festivals and rites by singings, dancing and sacrificing animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">At present, the Majority of the Garo tribes have become the followers of Christian religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">They now observe different Christian religious festivals including Christmas day.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The name of the dress prepared by the Garo women is Dakmanda and Dakshari.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The name of the traditional dress of the male person is Gando.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">104 Bangladesh and Global Studies Traditional dress of the Garo Women The Garo eat fish and vegetable with rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The bottom part of little bamboo is one of their favourite foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Its popular name is Mewya.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Besides, they like to eat cake (pitha) wrapped in banana leaf, Mera pitha and pitha fried in oil (Teler pitha).</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The Garo are very fond of merriment.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Their social festivals are agriculture based.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Their greatest festival is Oyangala.The language of Bangladeshi Garo is Mandi Khusik.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Their language has no alphabet of its own.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The Garo language is related with Tibet-Burmee language.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The Garos build their houses on land with tree, bamboo and straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">But many Garos live in the houses made of Tin and Earth instead of houses made of straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The Sautal is one of the main tribals living in the North-western part of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">They live in the districts of Rajshahi, Dinajpur, Rangpur and Bogra.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">A good number of Sautal live in our neighboring Indian state of west Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Anthropologically the Sautal belongs to Australoyad people.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The colour of their body is black, they are of medium height and their hair is black and a little bit curled.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The Sautal family is patriarchal.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The group and tribe of the offspring are fixed according to those of father in a Sautal family.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The main pillar of Sautal society is Village Panchayet.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">There are five Maji parnik to run a panchayet.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">They are Maji haram, jag maji, Paranik, Godet and Nayek.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Thery treat Nayek not as a member of panchayet, but as a religions leader (guru).</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Agriculture is the main livelihood of the Sautal.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">They work mainly as agriculture workers in greater Rajshahi, Dinajpur and Rangpur districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">They cultivate rice, mustard seed, tobacco, chilli, sugarcane and the other crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Besides, they prepare different types of mat, sweeping items with bamboo, cane, shal leaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">After meeting their own requirements, they sell those items in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The Sautal tribals are the followers of two religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">One group believes in traditional Hindu religion and observes the norms and programmes of the religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Another group have accepted the Christian religion and they observe the norms and programmes of the Christian religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Rice is the staple food of the Sautal.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The Sautal generally live in earthern houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The wall of their house is made of earth and the roof is made of straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The Sautals keeps their houses very clean and tidy.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Among the festivals of the Sautal, Sohrai and faguya are noteworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Jumur dance is a mentionable programme of their culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Dum and Jika dance are arranged at the marriage festivals of the sautal.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The Sautal girls put on sharee wrapped over their shoulders.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The male Sautal puts on Lungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The Sautal are very fond of ornaments, The girls use ornaments made of either bronze or nickel in their hands and neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Many male Sautals also use ornaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Some of the male persons use garlands in the neck and Bala in the hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Both the male and the female have'Ulky' symbol at the chest and hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The percentage of educated people in the Sautal society is very low, but recently the children of Sautal families have become interested in institutional education.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The Sautal- revolt that happened in the first part of 20th century is a significant historic incident of the sub-continent.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The pioneers of this revolt are two brothers; Sidhu and Kanu.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The Sautals worship them as heroes.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Among the tribals living in hill track regions of Bangladesh, the Marmas are second in number of population.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The majority of the Marma tribals live in Rangamti, Bandarbon and Khagrachhori districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">There are some villages at every mouja.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The villagers selected the chief of the village.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The Marma call the village Ruya and the chief of the village Ruyazoo in their local languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">In a Marma family, the mother plays a significant role in family functions although the father is at the top.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The opinion of the female members gets due consideration in the afair of taking any family decision in a Marma family.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Agriculture is the main source of livelihood of the Marma.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The process of their cultivation is called Jum.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The Marma are the followers of Buddish religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">They celebrate the programmes of this religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Buddist monastery Kiyang and Buddist Bhikkhu Bhantey are present at every Marma village.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">A large number of Buddhists go there every year to worship Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The Marma build their villages on the bank of the river on plain land, The houses of the Marmas are made of bamboo and straw.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The Marma males wear Gambang Shirt and Lungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Gambang is put on head.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The name of the blouse that their women wear is Anji.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Besides, they also wear thami.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Marma women are very skilled in weaving clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Tat (a type of weaving machine) pulled by both the hand and leg are used by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The Marmas, like the other tribals of hill tracks, eat fish, meat and vegetable with rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Water is kept in a boat or a big vessel at the place fixed for playing Panikhela.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">This festival is celebrated with much joy and pleasure in the middle of April at Bandarban and Rangamati.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The Rakhain live in the districts of Patuakhali; Borguna, and Cox's bazaar of Bngladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Anthropologically the Rakhain are Mongolian.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Their face is round, colour of the body is fair and the hair is straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The word Rakhain is derived from Rakkhain of palli language.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Its meaning is conservative nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The original abode of the Rakhain is Arakan region of the present Myanmmar.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The Rakhain once came to this country from Arakan.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">They like to identify themselves as Rakkhain.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The Rakhain family is mainly patriarchal.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Father is the head of the family, but they respect the women.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The Rakhain mainly depend of agriculture, side by side, they also make cloth by hand- driven Tat.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The Rakhain of Bangladesh are the followers of Buddha religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The Rakhain children are taught religious norms and rules by the Buddha Bhikkhu at the monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Cultural life: The Rakhain villages are situated in the plain land by the side of the river and coastal areas of the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The Rakhain build their house on Macha; on the bamboo pillars.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Some of their houses have roof made of gulpata and some of their houses are made of tin.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The Rakhain observe different programmes and festivals on various occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Among them, religious festivals such as- birth anniversary of Gautam Buddha, Baisakhi purnima, Basanta utshab (Spring festival) are prominent.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The Rakhain celebrate another festival at chaitra sangkranti and its name is Sandre festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">This is their greatest festival which is participated by all people.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The Rakhain male persons put on Lungi and Fatua.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">They normally put on Lungi over the Fatua.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">They put on pagri (a special type of head covering) while offering worship at the temple and attending religions and folk programmes.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">This pagri is the symbol of their tradition.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The Rakhain women put on Lungi.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">They wear blouse over the lungi.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
