<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-bdGlobal-13</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.858</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">170</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2202</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">820</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t91">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The present world consists of 196 countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They are situated at different parts of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">They are independent countries, but in the present world no country can run alone without the help of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">They are to depend on one another economically, socially, culturally even politically.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">They are to cooperate with each other for national development as well as global peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Let's have an example.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">As a developing country Bangladesh has many problems in the fields of food, health, and education etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The government of Bangladesh alone cannot solve these problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">So the country has to depend on other nations and organizations.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Similarly other nations in the world have their own problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">To solve these problems and to build up a peaceful world, many regional and international organizations are formed in the world with everyone's cooperation.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The regional organizations are working for the countries of a particular region.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Some of them are SAARC, ASEAN, Europian Union, African Union etc. On the other hand, some organizations are working for international community.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The United Nations, Non- Alliance Movement, OIC are some of the international organizations.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">This chapter focuses some of the regional and international organizations here.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">This century experienced two world wars.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Many countries were involved in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The First World War continued from 1914 to 1918 while the Second World War continued from 1939 to 1945.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Both the wars killed many people and destroyed many cities, towns and localities.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The progress of human civilization faltered due to these wars.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">All rational people as well as the statesmen were anxious observing the horror, cruelty, and amount of devastation of the wars.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">They started thinking how to save this world from the atrocities of war.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">They felt the need of an organization which will work for conflict resolution and enhancement of cooperation among the nations through dialogues.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">After the First World War was over, the League of Nations was established with a view to establishing world peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">However this organization could not go far due to the self-centred attitudes of many countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Neither could it save the world from the dangers of war.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">As a result, the world witnessed the Second World War in Its massacre was many times higher than the previous one.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">By the end of the war, America had used nuclear bombs in two Japanese cities, Hiroshima and Nagasaki on 6th and 9th August.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Two hundred thousand people were burnt to death in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Many thousand people were either injured or became crippled.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">People around the world were thunderstruck on observing the huge devastation of the Second World War.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The United Nations was established having the following objectives; To ensure peace, discipline and security throughout the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">To develop friendly relations among all the countries in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">To work for conflict mitigation peacefully among the countries by means of international laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">To safeguard basic human rights of people irrespective of national and religions identity, colour, language, or gender.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">To enhance international cooperation with a view to solve economic, social, cultural and human discriminations.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The organogram of the United Nations The United Nations has six supporting organizations.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">To begin with, the United Nations comprised of 50 countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Now it has 193 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Its head quarter is in New York City in USA.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The Secretary General of the United Nations is the chief executive of the organization.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Trygve Halvdan Lie, a Norwegian, was the first Secretary General of the United Nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The present Secretary General is Ban Ki-moon and he is from South Korea.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Bangladesh became a member of the UN in 1974.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The UN has its own flag.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Its colour is light blue.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">In the centre, there is a map of the world outlined with a wreath of crossed branches of the olive tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Conventionally olive leaf symbolizes peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The text below discusses organogram and activities of different supporting organizations of the UN:</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The General Assembly: All member states of the UN are members of the General Assembly.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Each of the member state of the General Assembly has a vote.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Usually the General Assembly sits once in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">At the beginning of each assembly, the members vote for a new president.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The General Assembly discusses international peace and security situation as well as issues related to human rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Security Council: It has 15 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">5 of them are permanent members.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Others are temporary members.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">They are elected by the members of the general assembly in every two years.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The permanent members of the Security Council are the United States of America, United Kingdom, Russia, France, and the People's Republic of China.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Each permanent member has the veto power.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">By exercising this veto power any permanent member can postpone or cancel any resolution of the council alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The Security Council tries to relieve any international conflict through dialogues.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">If such initiatives fail, the council can take military actions.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The council is assigned to ensure peace and security of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Economic and Social Council: This council has 54 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Its assembly takes place at least twice in a year either in New York or Geneva.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Each member has a vote and decisions are taken with the votes of the majority.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The council works for the well being of people, unemployment problem, expansion of education, and human rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Preparing recommends for people's welfare is the responsibilities of the council.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Trusteeship Council: The Trusteeship Council consists of the permanent members of the Security Council and other selected members.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The council on behalf of the UN pays attention to the underprivileged countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The main responsibility of this council is to preserve regional independence under the trusteeship, and support countries for their self rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">International Court: This is the principal judicial organ of the United Nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">It comprises 15 judges.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">It is located in a city named Hague in Netherlands.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Any member state of the United Nations can go to this court to settle any international legal disputes.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The UN Secretariat: This secretariat includes all officers and employees of the United Nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The chief executive of this organization is the Secretary General.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He is elected by the General Assembly for five years.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">This secretariat runs all administrative work of the UN.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">It has few divisions to run its activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">We have already known that the UN was founded with a view to establishing global peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Since its inception, this largest international organization has been working to bring its objectives real.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Wars are the main obstacles here.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Therefore wherever a war is, the UN takes initiatives to stop it.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Sometimes the organization sends peace keepers to the area conflit zone.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Additionally, the UN has been working to eradicate hunger, poverty and illiteracy;</sent>
				<sent id ="88">to establish human rights;</sent>
				<sent id ="89">to defend environmental pollution and population boom;</sent>
				<sent id ="90">to establish children and women rights and thus it is contributing to global peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Some particular organizations are working under the direct guidance of the UN to materialize these objectives.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">For example, UNESCO is working for the development of educational, scientific, and cultural aspects.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">UNICEF works for the betterment of children around the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">WHO works for health management.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">All these organizations are greatly contributing to solve different problems of Bangladesh as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In contrast, Bangladesh as a member state is cooperating with the UN to implement many activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">For example, the members of our police and military forces are taking part in peace keeping activities around the world on behalf of the UN.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Thus they are playing important roles to ensure global peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This is a social organization of the UN.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It was established in Its head office is in Paris, the capital city of France.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Presently 189 countries are its member.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">UNESCO has been working with a view to arousing respect for justice, rules of law, and human rights.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">UNESCO works mainly in four areas: education, science, culture, and communications.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Bangladesh joined UNESCO on 27th October, The Govt. of Bangladesh formed the UNESCO commission.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">This organization helps UNESCO to implement their activities in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">UNESCO has significant roles in eliminating illiteracy.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The organization has special interest in adult education, science education, communications development, and preserving cultural heritage.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">21st February, our language martyr day, has been acknowledged as International Mother Language Day due to the support of UNESCO.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">FAO stands for the Food and Agricultural organization of the United Nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It came into existence in Now it has 187 member states.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The organization has been fighting against poverty around the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The main objectives of FAO are to ensure food security, agricultural production, and standard life of people by abolishing hunger and malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Bangladesh is a member state of FAO.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">It has a branch in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">FAO has dominant roles in the development of food and agriculture in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Our country is not self sufficient in food.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">On the top of that, due to natural disasters often our crops are damaged resulting in food crisis.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">FAO supplies with essential guidelines to the Govt. to come out of this problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Apart from this, FAO extends support in food supply, agricultural Bangladesh and some international organizations 127 development, and emergency situation management.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">At the same time, the organization extends technical supports for small and peripheral farmers who are victims of natural disasters.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">WHO works as a coordinating organization for public health.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">It started working on 7th April Its head quarter is in Geneva, Switzerland.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The main objective of the organization is to ensure best health facilities for people of different parts in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Naturally this organization has major roles in the development of public health in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">WHO has notable achievements in controlling cholera and diarrohea.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">UNFPA was founded in Its head quarter is in New York.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">More than 140 countries around the world are its member.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">UNFPA runs its activities through its regional offices at the different parts of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The main objective of the organization is to supply necessary consultation and assistance for solving population problems in the developing countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">With the cooperation of this organization, a new department named Population Sciences has been introduced in Dhaka University.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">This department teaches many issues on population at home and abroad and runs research programmes on related matters.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">a. Non-Aligned Movement (NAM): This is an organization of the developing countries which are not members of any military alliance.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">They initiated this movement in Presently more than half of the countries in the world are member of this organization.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">NAM Summit takes place in one of the member countries after few years in turns.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">There the heads of the countries or the heads of the Governments finalise policies and strategies of the movement collectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Bangladesh is an important member of the NAM movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">From the beginning Bangladesh has been taking active part in the NAM movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Bangladesh has full fledged support to its policies and objectives.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">This is an international organization for the main Islamic countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">It has 57 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Its head quarter is in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">OIC was established in a critical context for the Muslims in Then its name was Organisation of Islamic Conference.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Now the name has changed into Organization of Islamic cooperation.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The organization works to find out problems in the Muslim world as well as ways to solve them.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Bangladesh became a member of OIC in From the beginning, Bangladesh has active roles as a member.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Conversely, Bangladesh is receiving many kinds of cooperation from other member countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Bangladesh is earning huge amount of foreign currencies from the oil-rich counties, the members of OIC.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">It has substantial roles in the growth of our economy.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">OIC funds the Islamic University of Technology in Gazipur.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It is also provides financial support for the preservation of traditionally important mosques in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">European Union (EU): This organization was formed as a result of a mutual agreement among six counties in the Western Europe.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">These countries are Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxemburg, and Netherlands.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Now it has 27 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Its head quarter is in the capital city of Belgium, Brussels.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Its main concern is to create a common market to enhance commerce and economic development.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The citizens of the member countries of the European Union can travel among the member countries without any passport and visa formalities.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It has created opportunities for the citizens of one country to go to another country for education, business, and jobs.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The EU has a common currency, EURO that has made business and commerce easy for the member countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The executive wing of the European Union is European Commission (EC) that runs the everyday work of the EU.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It includes policy implementation, allocation and expenditure of funds etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">In fact, EC helps the activities of EU in all respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">African Union The full name of this organization is Organization of African Unity (OAU).</sent>
				<sent id ="163">This was established in All countries in Africa are its member except Morocco.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Presently it has 53 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The head quarter of this organization is based in Addis Ababa, the capital city of Ethiopia.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">This is an organization for the south-eastern counties of Asia to cooperate each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Its full name is Association of South East Asean Nations.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">It has 10 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">They are Indonesia, Singapore, Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Myanmar, Kampucia, and Laos.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Its head quarter is situated at Jakarta, Indonesia.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
