<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-bdGlobal-12</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.835</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">190</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2380</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">872</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t90">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">All objects got from nature are called natural resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Man procures these resources from nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">As a result, man's economic and social life advances.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Social and economic condition of a country can be improved by planned utilization of natural resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Lesson-1: Diverse Natural Resources of Bangladesh There are diverse valuable resources in nature such as water, air, soil, animals, crops, minerals etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Man transforms and utilizes these natural objects according to their demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">In this chapter we will discuss natural resources of Bangladesh : Soil: Soil is a valuable nature's gift in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The plain land of this country is very fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In most areas three crops are grown annually.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">One-tenth of the country is mountainous.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">There are abundant animal, forest and mineral resources in mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Rivers: Bangladesh is riverine.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">There are many big and small rivers in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The rivers are easy means for cargo transport and communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Electricity can be produced from current of rivers.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Besides, our rivers abound with fish resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Mine resources: Many valuable minerals are there under earth in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Among them coal, gas, lime-stone, china clay and silica are mentionable.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Forest resources: The total forest area of Bangladesh is 24,983 square kilometer.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">16 per cent of total land area of the country is forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">There is valuable vegetation in forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">They are used to make our home and furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Besides, there are bird and animal resources in forests.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Forests are invaluable in maintaining ecological balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">We need much more forest lands.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Fish resources: There are many rivers and canals in Bangladesh along with the Bay of Bengal on the south.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">There are a huge number of sweet water fishes in these low lands, rivers, canals.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Besides, sea-fishes are also catering to our food demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Many people live by fishing.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Animal resources: Among our animal resources, there are cows, buffaloes, goats, ram, fowl, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">They are domestic animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Besides, there are many kinds of birds in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Sea/Marine resources: There lies the Bay of Bengal covering the southern region of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The two sea-ports Chittagong and Mongla have developed along the sea coast.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">We produce salt from sea water.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Besides, we procure huge quantity of fishes from the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">These are our important natural resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">True, that some resources are not enough compared to our population.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">But the country can become rich by limited resources if these are properly utilized through careful planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Man does a variety of jobs for living.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">These are man's economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Social system builds up on the base of these economic activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">In ancient days man used to procure fruits from forests and ate meat after hunting animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Later they learnt to grow crops and build up agrarian social system.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Man's socio-economic system has been built up centering on the production, distribution and consumption of food and other commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">All the resources man used since ancient age to middle age were natural resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Man has transformed natural resources for their own use.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">In the modern age, man has learnt to dig out minerals such as coal, iron, stone, gold, silver, gas etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They are utilizing natural resources with greater skills and inventing many modern devices.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">In this way man has been improving fast their socio-economic condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Role of natural resources in development of Bangladesh: Natural resources of Bangladesh are limited.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">On the other hand, the population is very big compared to the resources.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">So we have to use natural resources by proper planning.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Production and creating employment: Ours is an agrarian country.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The soil is also very fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Agricultural production will be much higher by proper utilization of this fertile soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Industrialization too should be in planned way.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">If we use advanced technology in agriculture, production will rise and new employments will be created in villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">As a result, rural people will not rush to towns for employment.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Meeting demands of balanced diet: The utilization of three kinds of animal resources namely cattle, fowl and fish have increased in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">As a result, the demand of balanced diet is being met.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">On the other hand, lacs of farms are growing providing employment for many.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Providing irrigation facilities: We can irrigate our agricultural land by water of our river-canal-low land-haor.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">As a result, agricultural production can be raised in dry season too.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Industrial development and trade expansion: The gas, coal and limestone of the country are also utilized.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">These, natural resources are being used so that industry is expanding.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Forest resources: We use forest resources in building houses and making furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Again, forest resources are very necessary in reducing temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We have to further increase our forest resources in a planned way.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">By proper utilization of country's natural resources, the agriculture and industry will develop and employment opportunities will be generated.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Bio-diversity: The way in which diverse living beings keep alive in nature is plainly called bio-diversity.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The animal world along with man, animals and insects lives maintaining a balance in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Different flora and fauna live or die due to various changes in climate and temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The existence, reproduction and evolution of all living beings are going on in nature in a balanced way.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Living beings are symbiotically dependent.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Animals live by inhaling oxygen exhaled by green plants in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">On the other hand, plants get necessary nitrogen from animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Different animals in the forest live by hunting one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The reproduction of living beings occurs in a similar way.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The flora and fauna in the Sunderbans are damaged in cyclones, and again it becomes filled with the same as per the law of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Once upon a time, Bangladesh abounded with forests, animals and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Low marshes abounded with aquatic animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The normal flow of water is hampered due to the building of houses and roads.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">As a result, reproduction of aquatic animals and fishes is hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The cultivable land has diminished due to the building of houses, roads and towns.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The fertility of land is being spoiled by chemical wastes due to unplanned industrialization.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The use of chemical fertilizer and pesticides has been a must for enhanced food production to feed our increased population.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The consequence is hampered reproduction of fishes, insects and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">For that reason too bio-diversity is also affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">There has been pressure on plant, animal and fish resources due to the increase of country's population.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Gas and water supply in urban areas has reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Temperature in rural areas has increased too due to the decrease of vegetation.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">It will be devastating for us to let bio-diversity be affected by our conscious and active hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">We have to be conscious and active immediately to face this danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Population should be reduced; Cultivable land should not be spoiled;</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Policy to protect bio-diversity in agro-production should be adopted;</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Fertilizer and pesticide should not be used unnecessarily;</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Normal flow of water should not be blocked;</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Water reservoir should be built and water should be reserved;</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Rules should be obeyed in using chemicals;</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Law of nature should be followed in consumption of minerals;</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Forest resources should be increased and more forest should be created in the country;</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Animal and fish resources should be protected and increased;</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The highest vigilance should be adopted in individual and government levels to protect bio-diversity;</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It should be remembered that bio-diversity in Bangladesh is under absolute threat.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Industry is a vital sector of Bangladesh economy.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The contribution of this sector in GDP is gradually increasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Local and foreign entrepreneurs have already established a good number of industries in Bangladesh which leaves a major impact on socio-economic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Following are descriptions of major industries in Bangladesh:</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The farmer used to meet family's monetary demand by selling jute.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">There are 76 jute mills in the country now.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Once, the jute mills used to produce jute sacs only.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Now, new probabilities for jute products are opening and will open in the future too.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Bangladesh has earned 32 crore US dollars exporting jute products in fiscal year 2009- 2010.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">It is possible in Bangladesh to produce in this industry using comparatively a little capital and more labourers.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Textile had a major role in the initial phase of industrialization.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Garments industry: Recently the readymade garments industry has advanced remarkably in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The progress of this industry started in the eighties of the last century.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Within a very short time this industry has proved to be the largest export- oriented industry in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">There are more than three thousand units of garment industry at present in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">More than 30 lac labourers are working in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Bangladesh earns a huge foreign currency by exporting garments to the US and European countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Bangladesh earned 5,919 million US dollars by exporting ready I made garments in 2008-09 fiscal year.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Sugar industry: Bangladesh produces a huge amount of sugarcane.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Sugar and gur are produced from sugarcane.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The first sugar mill was established at Gopalpur in Natore in At present the country has 17 sugar mills.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Enough sugar is not produced in the country to meet our demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">So Bangladesh has to import a huge quantity of sugar from foreign countries every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Our sugar production was 163.84 thousand metric tons in 2007-08.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">There are a number of paper mills in both public and private sectors in the country now.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Besides the public sector mills of Karnafuli, Pakshi, Khulna Hardboard and Newsprint, private sector mills of Basundhara and Magura paper mills are major industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Fertilizer industry: The enterprise of producing fertilizer was taken with the objective of increasing food production in agro-based Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The first natural gas based fertilizer factory was established at Fenchugonj, Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">In the country, 6 urea and one TSP fertilizer factory are operational now.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The production of these factories is not sufficient for the demand of fertilizer in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">We have to import a huge amount of fertilizer from foreign countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Bangladesh has to import an amount of fertilizer costing about 67 crore US dollars in the fiscal year 2009-10.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Cement industry: A huge amount of cement is required to build up concrete houses, buildings as well as cities.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Cement is produced combining lime stone and natural gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Only half of the total demand of cement in the country is produced in these factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The rest we have to import from overseas.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">An amount of 3922.43 thousand metric tons of cement was produced in the country in 2007-08.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Drug industry: Drug is seen as a prospective industry in Bangladesh now.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Once, we had to import drugs spending a huge foreign currency.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Drug is seriously considered as a promising export-oriented industrial sector by many in Bangladesh now.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Leather industry: A huge number of cows, goats and buffaloes are reared in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Leather industry or tannery has started long ago in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Leather industry has no match in producing shoes and bags.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Some companies are exporting their products too.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Bangladesh has earned 19 crore million US dollars exporting shoes overseas in the fiscal year 2008.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">In the same year we have earned 18 crore US dollars by exporting leather.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Tea industry: Tea is one of the very old industries in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Abundant tea is produced in Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Besides, tea is now being produced in Chittagong Hill Tracts and Dinajpur too.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Tea-leaf is processed to make it worthy of drinking.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Bangladesh also exports tea overseas after meeting their internal demand.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Bangladesh has exported tea worth 120 lac US dollars in the fiscal year 2008-09.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Besides, there are varieties of small and big industries too.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">New industries are emerging.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Varieties of commodities are being produced in those industries which are playing an important role in meeting our demands.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Industry in socio-economic development: Quick industrialization is taking place in context of the present world order.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Man is producing varieties of commodities applying latest technologies.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">They are trading those commodities; maintaining their livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Human enterprise, capital and research and experience play the major role in the development of industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">As a result massive development is coming in economy.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Economic development helps bring changes in the condition of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">So there is no alternative to industrial growth for rapid socio-economic change or development of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Growth in industry sector is essential even for the development of agriculture or service sectors.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Those sectors are now developing highly by using machine and technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">So the socio-economic condition of a farmer has also been deeply related with industrialization.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Farmers are now growing more food by using industry and technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In addition to meeting own food demand, they are being able to meet other demands too by selling crops in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">So a farmer's livelihood has been more secured socially than that was ever before.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The impact of industrial development in Bangladesh: The pressure of population growth in Bangladesh is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Only agriculture is not able to provide a well of life for all people.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In this context, labourers and employees are being able to remove domestic poverty by working in mills and factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Many are working with handsome salaries after gathering skills and experiences.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">In this way opportunities for livelihood are being created outside agriculture for a large number of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">About 40 lac people in Bangladesh are now directly linked with garments sector only.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">A major portion of them are women who joined garments sector to alleviate their poverty.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">They have grown up as self-reliant people.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Many of them are acquiring further skills through study and training side by side of their work.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">They are trying to rear up their children as worthy citizens through proper education.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Besides garments, there are other sectors too where lacs of people coming from rural areas are being employed for livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">As a result, the socio-economic condition of the country is rapidly changing.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">In urban areas, the number of lower middle class, middle class and the rich are growing than the extreme poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">People are joining new professions along with job, trade and commerce, teaching, law etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Thus the socio- economic livelihood that people are developing after coming in touch with industry and technology is plainly called modern life style.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Developed countries of the world have been able to build up a developed socio-economic system through the development of industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Now, we will also be able to build up a developed socio-economic system by dint of rapid expansion of industry, information, technology and science.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
