<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-bdGlobal-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:00.896</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">328</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4694</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1594</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t92">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">1970 election and post-election incidents are very important in the history of liberation war of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Awami league won in this election in both provincial and National Parliaments with absolute majority.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">After the victory in the election, Awami league laid pressure on the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">to hand over power on the basis of people's verdict.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Elected members of Awami league in both the provincial and national assembly took oath publicly in the Racecourse ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">He created a new crisis in the politics of Pakistan by declaring that he would boycott the National assembly to be held at Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The people of East Pakistan reacted angrily at this declaration.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">They took spontaneous part in all activities demanding the handover of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Students played a pioneering role in this movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Besides, teachers, professionals and women organizations also came forward to join the movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Meetings and the procession were held every day from the beginning of March, 1971 and people attended in huge numbers, motivated by Bhutto.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">President Yahiya Khan suspended the holding of national assembly on 1st March to delay handing over power to Awami league.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Scheme of all-out movement was declared on that day in the parliamentary meeting of Awami league.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">People extended their spontaneous support.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Thus started another chapter of liberation war of Bangladesh: non co-operation movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The Awami league declared Hartal in Dhaka city on 2nd March and in the whole country on 3rd March.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">2nd march, 1971 leaders of Chattra league hoisted this flag as the flag of Bangladesh in a big gathering at Dhaka University.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Leaders of Dhaka University Chattra League and the leaders of DUCSU (Dhaka University Central Students Union) jointly hoisted the flag.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">This flag inspired us during our liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Full non co-operation movement started from 3rd March and continued up to 25th March.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Students action committee was formed on 3rd March.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">At this, the movement became stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Students action committee pledged total confidence in the leadership of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and gave declaration of independent sovereign Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Being afraid of this step, Yahiya Khan in a radio speech on 6th March convened the session of National Assembly on 25th March.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The undisputed leader of Bangladesh Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman could how over not become satisfied with this declaration of Yahiya Khan.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">A public meeting was convened on 7th March at racecorse ground (today's Suhrawardee Uddan) with a view to declaring a programme for a greater movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">In his speech of 7th March, Bngabandhu gave the declaration of running the country's administration as the elected party.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He did this according to a consensus of Awami league leaders.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He instructed the people to maintain non co-operation with Pakistan Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">and declared the closure of courts, offices, educational institutions for an indefinite period.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">We know that a sovereign country is ruled by money collected in the form of tax and revenue.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">In his speech, he declared There shall be no payment of tax and revenue till my country is liberated.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">So, he asked the people to take preparations to launch a liberation war; Side by side he also attempted to solve the problem through dialogue.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Remain ready with what you have.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">In his speech he also said to the people Make a fort in each house.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">You shall have to face the enemy with what you have.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">This was a clear indication of liberating Bangladesh by Guerrilla warfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">In his speech, Bangabandhu used Bangladesh in the presence of 10 lac people and thus he finalized the name of would be formed new state.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">In the speech, Bangabandhu did not turn his back against the path of dialogue to settle the problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">About participation in the session of National Assembly on 25th March, he gave four pre-conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Withdrawing martial law.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Handing over power to people's representatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Inquiries into mass killing by the army.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Taking the soldiers back to the barrack.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He instructed all to continue non-co-operation movement till these demands were met.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The 7th of March speech of Bangabandhu was the document of liberation to the Bangladeshis.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">This speech inspired all the people of the country to fight for liberation.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">This speech united the people and encouraged them to accept maximum sacrifice for the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">This speech magically transformed the Bangalee masses into a nation of heroes.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">So, many people think that this speech is an unprecedented example in the political history of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">After this speech, the united people took active part in the non- co- operation movement and spontaneously took part in the fight for freedom.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Schools, Colleges, Offices, mills and factories of the whole country were closed at the order of Bangabandhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Riotic people started to resist Pakistan's forces in different places.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">There was no collection of tax and revenue.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The rule of Bangabandhu was established everywhere except in the cantonments.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Bangladesh was then governed not by the Governor's house, cantonments or the Secretariat, but by 32 no.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Dhanmondi house of Bangabandhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">This house became the office of the Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The work of implementing other instructions of Bangabandhu was being done by the party secretary Tajuddin Ahmed at Awami league head quarters.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Realizing the gravity of the situation, Yahiya Khan arrived is Dhaka on 15th March and proposed negotiations with Bangabandhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Negotiation started on 16th March.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Zulfikar Ali Bhutto also came on 22nd March and took part in the negotiation.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Finding negotiation futile Yahiya Khan and Bhutto left Dhaka on the night of 25th March.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The warth of the fell upon Pakistan army fell upon Bangalees at midnight on that day.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Pakistani soldiers mercilessly killed many innocent Bengalees on that black night.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Genocide conducted by Pakistani soldiers on the night of 25th March, 1971 in the then East Pakistan was named Operation search light.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Though this operation started on the night of 25th March, its preparation had started of the beginning of March.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">A Ship named M.V. Swayat loaded with arms and weapons reached Chittagong port from West Pakistan on 3rd March.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">President Yahiya stayed at Dhaka from 15-24th March in the name of discussion with Bangabandhu;</sent>
				<sent id ="70">but actually he stayed at Dhaka to supervise the preparation of Operation Search light.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">According to Operation Searchlight, the responsibility of conducting genocide in Dhaka city was given to Major General Rao Forman Ali.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">According to plan, Pakistani soldiers wanted to take control of EPR headquarters at Pilkhana and Rajarbag police line.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The primary responsibilities of the soldiers were to attack Dhaka University, Dhaka Engineering University, arrest Bangabandhu, control telephone exchange, Radio, television.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">To keep Chittagong port and other important settlements under their control was also the target of Pakistani soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Outside Dhaka, this operation was conducted by General Khadem Hossain Raja.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The head of this operation was Lt.General Tikka Khan.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Pakistani soldiers came out at the streets from Dhaka Cantonment at 11.30 pm. on 25th march.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">A procession in support of liberation became the first target of Pakistani soldiers at Farmghate.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">At the same time, attack was carried on at Peelkhana and Rajarbagh police line.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Bangalee soldiers tried to resist Pakistani soldiers; but they had no arms and preparation capable of resisting the planned attack of well armed soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">As a result, Pakistani soldiers mercilessly killed many of them on that night.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Attack was conducted in the halls of Dhaka University at dead of night.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Pakistani soldiers entered Iqball Hall (now jahurul Huq hall) and Zagannath hall and killed many innocent sleeping students.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">They conducted mass killing also at Dhaka hall (Shahidullah hall), Rokeya hall and University residential area.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">10 teachers and 300 students and employees of Dhaka University were killed during the genocide in March.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The railway slums near Jahurul Huq hall were on fire and the result of this was heavy destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">7-8 thousand people were killed on the night of 25th March.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Pakistani soldiers conducted attack in the cantonments, EPR base and in other places outside Dhaka city and killed a good number of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">In this way, the Pakistani soldiers could take the control of all police and EPR Settlements from the beginning of operation Search Light.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Many innocent persons were killed in these areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">According to the plan of Operation Search light, the Pakistani soldiers arrested Bangabandhu from his 32 no.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Dhanmondi house at 1.30 am on 25th March (at the start of 26th March) .</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Before being arrested, Bangabandhu declared independence and gave a clarion call to his countrymen to launch war.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The declaration of Independence by Bangabandhu on 26th March was a very significant event in the history of liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">What did Bangabandhu say in his declaration of independence?</sent>
				<sent id ="96">He said, This is perhaps my last speech.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Bangladesh is independent from today.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">I urge upon all the people of Bangladesh to face the occupation forces with all that you have.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">You will have to carry on the war till the last soldier of Pakistani force is killed and independence is achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">This declaration was sent to Chittagong by wireless.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The Awami League leaders of Chittagong came forward to broadcast this.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">There were some enthusiastic and patriotic employees at Chittagong radio centre.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">They converted Kalorghat Relay station into Independent Bangla revolutionary radio centre.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Abdul Hannan, general secretary of Chittagong Awami League broadcast this message of declaration on behalf of Bangabandhu at noon on 26th march.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Major Ziaur Rahman read out the declaration of independence on 27th march from the same radio centre.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">This declaration of independence broadcast by the wireless centre created inspiration and expectation in the people at all levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The Liberation war got a real shape with the declaration of independence on 26th march.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Though the preparation of liberation war of Bangladesh was sporadic at the initial stage, gradually it turned into a civil war.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The members of army, EPR, police and Ansar joined with all types of people, such as; farmers, workers, students and young men in this war.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The Govt. of People's Republic of Bangladesh formed during liberation war was known by different names.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This is sometimes called Temporary Bangladesh Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">and again it is sometimes called Exile Bangladesh Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">But this is widely known as Mujibnagar Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The Liberation war was conducted and independence was under at the leadership.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Mujibnagar or Bangladesh Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">was formed on 10th April The cabinet was formed and the declaration charter of independence was officially approved on the same day.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Bangabandhu's declaration of independence broadcast on 26th march was also officially approved on this day.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Members of Mujibnagar Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">took oath on 17th April, The oath taking ceremony was conducted by Professor Yusuf Ali.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Awami League chairman Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was the president of Mujibnagar Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">(ex-officio commander-in-chief of armed forces).</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Syed Nazrul Islam became vice-president (acting president and commander-in-chief of liberation war during the absence of Bangabandhu) and Tajuddin Ahamed became Prime Minister.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Other three ministers were; Finance Minister M. Monsur Ali, Home, relief and rehabilitation minister A.H.M.Kamruzzaman, Foreign affairs and law minister Khandaker Mushataq Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">For the conduct of administration in each country there are different ministries and different directorates under these ministries.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">had also ministries and directorates.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">These are: Defense, Foreign affairs, finance, industry and commerce, general administration, establishment, local govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">health and family planning, information and broadcasting, home affairs, relief and rehabilitation, parliamentary affairs, agriculture and technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Bangladesh was divided into 11 administrative zones.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Members of parliament or the leaders of Awami league were given the charge of their respective areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">A nine-member advisory board under the leadership of Tajuddin Ahmed was formed with the objective of establishing national unity during liberation war period.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Besides, planning commission of Mujibnagar govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">was also formed with Dhaka University Prof. Dr. Muzzaffar Ahmed chowdhury as its chairman.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">started to take massive programme for the smooth conduct of liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Osmany was the chief general of freedom fighters.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Besides, Col. (retd) Abdur Rob was the chief of staff.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Group captain A.K. Khondaker was the deputy chief of staff.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Each sector was again divided into some sub-sectors.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Sectors are described below.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Sector No-Chittagong, Chittagong Hill tracks and area up to Feni River.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">SectorNo-Noakhali, Akhawra, Comilla district up to Bhairab Railway station, Habiganj of Sylhet district, some parts of Dhaka and Faridpur districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Sector No-Akhawra, Comilla district from the east of Bhairab railway line, Sylhet, some parts of Dhaka district and Kishoreganj.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Sector No-Eastern part of Sylhet district, khoyai- Sayestaganj rail line and all regions in the east and south up to Dawki road.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Sector No-Western part of Sylhet district, from Sylhet- Dawki road up to Sunmganj- Mymensingh road.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Sector No-Rangpur and Thakurgaon subdivision (now district) of Dinajpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Sector-Southern part of Dinajpur district, Rajshahi, Pabna and Bogra districts.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Sector No-Kustia, Jessore, greater part of Faridpur and up to Dawlatpur-Satkhira road of Khulna.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Sector No-9.From Dawlatpur- Satkhira road up to southern part of Khulna district, some parts of Faridpur district, Barisal and Patuakhali.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Sector No-Under this sector, were naval commandos, tribal areas of the sea and internal naval routes.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Sector No-Mymensingh and Tangail except Kishoreganj.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The entire war field was divided into three Brigade forces besides 11 sectors and other sub sectors.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Forces were named with the 1st letter of the commanders of the brigades.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Map of the Sectors.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Freedom fighters were divided into two groups; Regular force and Occasional (temporary) force.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Regular force: This force consisted of Bengalee soldiers of different units of East Bengal regiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">They were officially named M.F (Moktifauz).</sent>
				<sent id ="156">formed army, air force and navy as the regular force during liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Occasional (Temporary) Force: This force consisted of students, youth, workers, farmers and freedom fighters of all other levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">This force was formed as occasional / temporary force under different sectors.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The official name of this force was Gano Bahinee or F.F ( freedom fighter).</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Members of this force were sent to conduct guerrilla war in their own areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Besides, Mujib Bahinee was formed with the selected workers of Chattra league.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Communist party (Muzaffar) NAP (Bhasany) and student's union had their own guerrilla forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Regional Force: Some forces were formed in different regions outside sector area.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Besides, a guerrilla group was formed at Dhaka known as crack platoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Thus they raised fear in the hearts of Pakistani soldiers and Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">This naval operation was known as Operation jack pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">According to the then statistics, almost seven and a half-crore people lived in Bangladesh and almost all of them were in favour of liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">But a limited number of our people were against our liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">They collaborated with Pakistani force betraying the interest of the country men.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">This opposition force wanted to use religion in their attempt to help the Pakistani forces to maintain the unity of Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">These anti liberation force fueled a reign of terror in the whole country by killings, looting, setting houses at fire and torturing the women.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">They prepared a list of the people who supported and helped the liberation and freedom fighters respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Then they handed over this list to the Pakistani forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">They tortured our people more than the Pakistani forces did.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Some organizations were formed during liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The function of these organizations was to help and assist the Pakistani force.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Dhaka civil peace committee consisting of 140 members was formed on 9th April.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The Activities of the peace committees formed in the middle of April expanded up to district, Thana and even upto Union council and ward level.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Truly speaking, members of these committees guided the Pakistani force in every nook and corner of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Rajakar Bahinee (force) was formed with the direct help and assistance of extremely fanatical political parties during the liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Jamayet leader Mawlana A.K.M. Yousuf first formed Rajakar bahinee in Khulna in the month of May, 1971.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Rajakar Bahinee was later formed gradually at other places.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Besides the members of Islami Chattra Sangha and other extremist religious groups, notorious culprits and unemployed youths joined the Razakar Bahenee.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Members of Al-Badr were even deadlier.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">This Bahinee (force) consisted of students of Jamati Islami Chattra Sangathan (Islami student's organization) and Islami Chattra Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">It is the Al-Badr members who executed the Pakistani plan of kidnapping, torturing and killing the intellectuals in the beginning of December.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Another organization similar to Al-Badr was Al-Shams.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Student fronts of Muslim league and other political parties jointly formed Al- Shams Bahinee.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The Pakistan Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">removed military governor general Tikka khan and replaced him with civil governor Dr. Abdul Mutalib malik.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The Pakistan Government did this with a view to misguiding the outside world.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">A civil government opposed to liberation war was formed under him on 17th September.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">There were ten ministers in the cabinet of Dr.Malik.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">They supported the military Janta and worked against liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">They conducted their anti-liberation activities through speeches, reports and instructions.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">This government was compelled to resign on 14th December.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Bangladeshis living in different countries of the world during liberation period started to unite together in protest of genocide and in support of liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Expatriates living in European countries used United Kingdom as the centre of movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Bangalees living in United States, Japan, Sweden, France, Canada and Indonesia also responded in support of the movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">They arranged meetings and seminars in protest of genocide and moulded public opinion and collected money in support of liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Some of them even went to India to take part in the liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Mujibnagar Government appointed Dhaka University Vice-chancellor justice Abu Sayeed chowdhury as special ambassador to mould public opinion for liberation war in outside world.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">He tried to get public support and mould public opinion in support of liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Their resignation and allegiance to Bangladesh government made a revolution in the entire world.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Representatives of 47 UN countries discussed the Bangladesh problem on the initiative of Justice Abu Sayeed Chowdhury.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">As a result of this, Pakistan government was compelled to suspend the killing of Bangabandhu.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">established two missions: one at Delhi and the other at Kolkata during the beginning of liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The first missions was established at kolkata.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Besides, Mujibnagar Government established missions also at Washington, New York and London.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">These missions arranged processions, gatherings, functions and contributed to mould opinion of parliament members and in educational institutes including Universities.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Among the countries, India and Soviet Union directly helped our liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">On the other side, China and United States favored Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">criticized the genocide of Pakistani force which started from 25th march.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">gave shelter to about one crore refugees who crossed the border to save themselves form genocide.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Besides, India also helped to run the functions of exile government at kolkata and to set up Sadhin Bangla Betar Kendra of Bangladesh Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The final war started when Pakistan Air Force attacked an Indian air base on 3rd December.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">It was than that war stared on all India-Pakistan borders.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">India recognized Bangladesh on 6th December.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">By now, joint Bangladesh-India command was formed in the month of November.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Joint command consisted of the members of Indian army and Bangladeshi freedom fighters.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Indian people of all levels extended spontaneous support and came forward to render all possible help in our liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Most of the Indian political parties, non-govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">organizations, writers, artistes, intellectuals, professionals-all stood side by us.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The Indian govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">introduced a new tax named Refugee tax to meet up the expenses of Bangalee refugee camps.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Four thousand officers and soldiers of Indian armed forces gave their in the battle fields for the independence of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The then Soviet Union played a very significant role in favor of our liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Soviet Union was with Bangladesh from the beginning till the end of our liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The Soviet president wrote a letter to President Yahiya in the beginning of April to stop genocide in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Soviet Union decided to prolong cease fire when war finally broke out on 3rd December.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Their aim was to give joint command necessary time and opportunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Their aim became successful.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The Govt. policy of United States supported Pakistan during the liberation war of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">It the beginning, US Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">helped Pakistan by giving arms and support.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">But US Opposition parties supported our liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">had to give financial support to Bangalee refugees living in India in spite of the pressure of internal opposition parties.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">India-Pakistan war broke out on 3rd December in After that United States adopted anti Indian pro- Pakistani policy.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">This role of USA went against Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">At this time, USA sent the 7th fleet to Indian Ocean to help Pakistan.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">But observing international reaction, USA then did not put the 7th fleet to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">US artiste Gorge Harrison conducted Bangladesh concert in New York and he gave all the money obtained from that concert to Mujibnagar Government.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Renowned Indian artiste Rabi Sankar also inspired and encouraged the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The foreign pressmen started to collect information about the genocide and destruction done by Pakistani.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">They started this from the date when Operation Search light commenced from 25th March.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">It is they who first spread the message of genocide and barbarity committed in Bangladesh to the outside world.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Simon Dring is a Journalist of this type.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">made some foreign journalists visit some areas of Bangladesh in the middle of They were allowed to visit only some occupied areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">then asked them to make a positive report in their favour.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">But their attempt did not work.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Having got on the spot idea of everything, they came to know all about atrocities of Pakistani force and they wrote about the facts.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">They made it known to world people by radio and newspaper.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">BBC journalist Mark Tally made news in favour of liberation war during the entire time.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Besides, many Bangalee journalists, though living in an occupied country, sent news out side at the risk of their lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">They had to pay a heavy price for this to the enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Nizamuddin and Nazmul Huq, two martyrs of 71 are the journalists of this type.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Besides, Akash Bani, BBC and VOA broadcast news in support of our liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Sangbad porikroma a news roundup broadcast by Akash Bani was a very popular programme.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Debdulal Bandopaddhay became known to every house by reading out this news.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Different programs of Sadhin Bangla Betar Kendra including Bajra kontho and Charampatra inspired the listeners during liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">At this time M.R Aktar Mukul awakened Bangalee with the feelings of liberation war by reading Charam patra.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Liberation war was conducted sector-wise by Mujibnagar Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">As a result of this, our freedom fighters could face the attacks of Pakistani forces with courage from the month of Ma.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Trained guerrilla fighters entered the country from June and they started heavy attacks upon the Pakistani forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">At this, Pakistani soldiers became defensive.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Indian forces began to help freedom fighters in the war field from the middle of November.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Two battalions of Indian soldiers built bases with tanks at Jessore.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Bangladesh and the Indian govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">formed a joint- command on 21st November with a view to launching stronger attack upon Pakistani forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Indian force that helped freedom fighters during liberation war were called Mitra Bahinee (Allied Force).</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Then an attack started in Bangladesh border under the command of joint force.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Air raid was also conducted side by side at different important places.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">India recognized Bangladesh as a Sovereign country on 6th December.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Joint force entered Jessore the next day when Jessore air port was occupied.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">During the next two days, Comilla, Brahmanbaria and Noakhali came under the control of allied force.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">(Mitra Bahinee) Hotel Inter Continental (present Ruposi Bangla) was declared as neutral Zone and all foreigners and deplomats living at Dhaka were given shelter there.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">The British and the citizens of other countries were evacuated by a special flight from Dhaka on that day.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Mymensingh, Hilee, Kushtia, Khulna, Rangpur, Rajshahi, Dinajpur and Sirajganj were liberated between 11-12th December.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Joint forces conducted air raids over different military settlements at Dhaka on 12th December.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Joint forces started to proceed towards Dhaka from all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Meanwhile, Pakistani forces started to surrender in different war fields on the border.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Sycophant governor of East Pakistan Dr. Malik resigned out of fear and took shelter at neutral zone i,e hotel Intercontinental along with his ministers.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">By 14th December, Pakistan force surrendered in almost all big towns and cantonments except Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">The war of Pakistani force ended on that very day.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Dhaka city was then become surrounded by joint forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The surrender of Pakistani force was imminent.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The occupation Pakistani force conducted mass killing mercilessly during the entire 9 months of liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">They started killing the unarmed Bangalees from the mid night of 25th March.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Kill at the first sight was the policy of Pakistani force with Awami league leaders and workers.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">The minority Hindu community was then the main victim of their merciless killing.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">The homes, houses, shops, Mahallas and villages of Hindu members were looted and set on fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Artistes, litt'rateurs and intellectuals were the special targets of Pakistani soldiers and their associates.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Inside the country, people were seized.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Many went into hiding and remained hidden for the entire 9 months of the war because of the Pakistani army, Rajakar and Al-Badrs.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">About one crore people were compelled to leave the country and take shelter in India.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Many Children died in refugee camps at India because of malnutrition and diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Misfortune also came down in the life of the old and the women.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">In the same manner, seized people inside the country also became victims of mass killing by the Pakistani forces and their collaborators.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">30 lac people sacrificed their lives in the liberation war.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Among them, many were prominent persons and again many were unknown persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Literateur Shahid Saber and Anwar Pasha and music expert Altaf Mahmud.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">In their attempt to conduct this planned genocide, Pakistani forces and their collaborators set up torture chambers in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Among the torture chambers and mas graves the big ones are located at Rayer bazar, Dhaka, Pahartali, Chittagong, Khalishpur, Khulna and Shamser Nagar, Sylhet.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">This genocide continued in the entire country during the whole of 9 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">They used to torture the captured persons in different manners and then killed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Besides, the captured persons were shot down after amputating the different parts of body one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Some people could somehow manage to escape from prison and torture chambers and death cells of Pakistani forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">The description of torture given by them is so frightening that it cannot be expressed in language.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Through this, we got our present Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Though the document of surrender was signed at 5 pm on 16th December, its formalities started from noon of that day.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Cease fire started from 5 am on that day.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Major general Nagra of Joint force started discursion with the officers of Pakistani force as the representatives of advanced party.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Meanwhile Major General Jakob, the chief of staff, Indian army arrived at Dhaka with the documents of surrender.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Lt. General Zagazit Singh Arora, the commander of joint force came from Agartala by helicopter at twilight that winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">He was accompanied by the representative of Mujibnagar government and deputy chief of staff of freedom fighters group captain A.K Khondakar.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Getting down from a helicopter at Tejgaon airport, Lt. General Aurora and A.K.Khondakar went direct to Race Course ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Both the sides of the road were full of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">One could hear only the echo of Joy Bangla everywhere in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">On Experession of victry by freedom fighter in 16th December hearing the news of surrender, thousands of people arrived at the Race Course Ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">The Pakistani forces obeyed all the rules relating to surrender in a war.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Lt. General Niyazee and Lt. General Aurora signed the documents of surrender at Race Course Ground sitting at a table under the open sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Pakistani force accepted total defeat through this surrender.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">All of the defeated Pakistani forces removed their badges and followed Lt. General Niazee.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The ceremony of surrender lasted only for a few minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">For security reasons, the surrendering Pakistani soldiers were quickly taken to cantonments as prisoners of war.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Pakistani forces outside Dhaka delayed up to 22nd December to accept defeat and surrender.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">A total of 91 thousand and 634 Pakistani including civil and military persons, surrendered to the Joint Forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Our liberation war successfully ended only in 9 months owing to the heroic fight of our freedom fighters.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
