<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-bdGlobal-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.006</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">223</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2761</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">905</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t97">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The State is a political organization.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Government is one of the elements to form a state.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Every independent country in the world has its own Government system.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Government can be of different types.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Every Government has some organs.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">By these organs, government is to perform various types of functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The State is governed according to some principles which are written down in the constitution.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">After liberation, the constitution of Bangladesh was framed on November.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In this constitution the principles and regulations of our country have been mentioned clearly.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">In this Chapter we will be able to know the state and Government system of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Among the four fundamental elements of the state, Government is one of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">This is the basic controlling power of the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">As a ship cannot run without an engine, in the same way a state cannot run without a Government.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Every function of the state is performed by the Government.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The Government is an essential element of all the states.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">But it can be of different types.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The types of government were not same form the period when the state originated.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">From time to time the types and concept of the government have been changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">At present, the government can be classified according to the following chart.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Government can normally be divided into two forms; namely Democracy and Dictatorship.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">In democracy sovereign power of the state is vested in the hands of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">People are the source of all power.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">People elect their nominated persons or political party by exercising their power of voting.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The elected representative form the government and administer the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Most of the countries in the world have such type of government.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">On the other hand, Dictatorship is a rule of one person or one political party.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">In this system of government, people do not have any recognition of their rights and opinion.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Here the country is ruled according to the wishes of a dictator or according to the wish and desire of a political party.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Constitutional Monarchy is such type of government where head of the state gets power by heredity.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">On the basis of the distribution of power, democratic government can be divided in to two forms; namely Unitary government and Federal government.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Unitary form of government is a system in which all the power are vested upon the central government.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Federal form of government is a system in which governmental power is distributed by the constitution between central government and provincial government.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">On the basis of the relationship between the Executive and Legislature, democratic government can be divided into two forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Parliamentary form of government and Presidential form of government.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">In Parliamentary form of government the Executive as a whole becomes responsible and dependent to the legislative department.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">But in presidential form of government Executive department does not remain accountable and responsible to the legislature.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">In this system of government President and his cabinet govern the country directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Four main characteristics of Bangladesh government are mentionable in the above chart.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">In this chart we can observe that Bangladesh is a democratic country.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">In this country republican government is existing now.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">It is a government of the people by the people for the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The country is unitary.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">There is no province in this country.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Cabinet or Parliamentary government is prevailing here.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Constitution is a document of running the State.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">What will be the types of government?</sent>
				<sent id ="47">what kind of rights will we enjoy as a citizen?</sent>
				<sent id ="48">what kind of powers will be exercised by the various organs of the government?</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Everything is written in the constitution.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The history of the constitution of Bangladesh is follows;</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The independence of Bangladesh was declared on the 26th march 1971.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The victory of Bangladesh was achieved on the 16th December 1971 through the armed liberation war of long nine months.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The first session of Gono Parishad was held on the 10th April.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">In this session a constitution committee was formed and Dr. Kamal Hossain was nominated the president of this committee.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">This committee made a draft constitution within six months.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">It was presented in the Gonoparishad on 30th October The constitution was finally approved on the 4th November 1972.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">So it is a sacred document for all of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Constitution is not an unchangeable document.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">It can be changed and amended with the changes of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Till now it has been amended fifteen times.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Last amendment (Fifteen) of the constitution was made on 30 June.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The main characteristics of the constitution of Bangladesh are as follows;</sent>
				<sent id ="63">People's Republic of Government: Bangladesh will be known as an independent and sovereign republic.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Parliamentary form of Government: Cabinet or Parliamentary system of government will be in action in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The real power of the government will be vested in the hands of Prime Minister.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Written Constitution: This constitution is a written document.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">It is divided in 11 parts and there are 153 articles and a preamble in the constitution.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Fundamental Principles of the State policy: In this constitution four fundamental principles of state policy have been formulated.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">These are; Nationalism, Socialism, Democracy and Secularism.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Unitary Government: Unitary form of government will be introduced in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Unicameral Legislature: In this constitution there has been a provision of a single chamber in the parliament.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Fundamental rights: Fundamental rights of the citizen and its preservation have been ensured in the constitution.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Independence of the Judiciary: Independence of the judiciary has been guaranteed in the constitution.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Election procedure: If the parliament either breaks or is abolished, fresh election will have to be arranged within 90 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Amendment of the constitution: The constitution can be amended by the votes of two thirds majority of the total number of members of the parliament.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Nationalism: A unique bond has been created among the Bangalee Nation with the help of the same language, literature and culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Socialism: To bring an equitable distribution in economic sector and ensure the amenities and facilities for all is the objective of this policy.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Socialism is accepted as a fundamental state policy to-ensure impartial justice and building up exploitation-free society.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Democracy: The main purpose of making democracy a fundamental state policy is to ensure people's participation in all activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The major policies are followed in every sector of the state administration.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Every citizen should be abided by this policy.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Besides, the constitution is a holy document of the state administration.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">So it is the duty for every citizen to honour and to be abided by the constitution.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Government is a basic controlling power of the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The state performs all its activities by the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The state cannot run without a government.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Government has to perform various types of functions to run the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">For example, the state ensures our food, education and security as the citizens of the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Government has to formulate various kinds of laws for the welfare of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">If anyone violates this law, he will be punished by the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">There are many other jobs of this type that the govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">has to perform.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Three organs of the Bangladesh Government are shown below in three pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">First picture is of Jatiya Sangsad Bhaban.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">It is situated at Agargaow in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The elected representatives formulate the necessary laws for the state and give their decision in other policy making affairs in the seating of the parliament.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The Second picture is of Bangladesh Secretariat.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Form this center, government governs the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The Last picture is of Bangladesh Supreme Court.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It is the highest court of justice of Bangladesh govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The short description of three organs of the government is as follows;</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The legislature of Bangladesh is unicameral.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Its name is Jatiya Sangsad.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It consists of 350 members.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Among them 300 members are elected from 300 constituencies by the direct vote of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">While 50 more seats is reserved for women.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In the reserved seats women members are elected by the members who are elected by direct vote.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">That means in the reserved seats women members are elected indirectly.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">But again out of 300 constituencies, the women members can be elected from any constituency by direct competition.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The tenure of the Sangsad is five years.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">There is one Speaker and one Deputy Speaker in parliament.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The responsibility of the Speaker is to conduct all activities relating to the session of the parliament.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Deputy Speaker assists him in this regard.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Besides, in absence of the Speaker he presides over the parliament session.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Both of them are elected from among the members of parliament by their vote.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The organ which is entrusted with the administration of the country is called the executive.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">In a wider sense executive means the officers and employees who are entrusted with the state functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">In this regard, from the head of the state down to village guard-all are the part of the executive.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The organ which administers impartial judgment according to the law of the country is called judiciary.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The judiciary consists of the judges of all the courts of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The Supreme Court is the highest court of justice in the judicial department.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The chief of this institution is called the Chief Justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The president appoints the chief justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The Supreme Court has two divisions; Appellate division and High court division.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The President also appoints the Justice of these two divisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">In the previous lesson, we have been introduced with the three organs of Bangladesh government.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">In this lesson we will be able to know their functions elaborately.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The legislature or the Jatiya sangsad enacts and amends general laws of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It also ventilates and expresses public opinion, controls government income and expenditure, formulates and amends the constitution, if any allegation is raised against the President;</sent>
				<sent id ="130">the legislature takes this into consideration.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Besides this, it also plays its role as a guardian of our national exchequer.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Taxes are levied and the budget is approved by the legislature.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The executive administers the country and executes the laws, passed by the legislature.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It maintains the internal law and order in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">It also maintains relationship with foreign countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">It works for the defense, liberty and sovereignty of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">In some cases, it also performs some legislative and judicial functions.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">As head of the executive, the president can grant pardon to a man sentenced to death penalty or lessen the punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">It calculates income and expenditure of the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The executive performs various public welfare services such as; education, agriculture, establishment of industry, trade & commerce, land reform, tax and revenue collection.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Beside this, it also accepts and implements various development projects.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The judiciary administers justice according to the existing laws of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">It makes civil life simple and beautiful and establishes fair justice by punishing the guilty and criminals.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The judiciary conducts and gives verdict of the different cases and litigations filed is court.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">It interprets the provisions of the constitution and does various investigative works.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The judiciary also acts as a safe guard of the constitution and rights of its citizen and it also conducts the works on various enquiries.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In the above discussion, we observe that every department of a government has its functions and scope.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">According to this, the functions of the department are conducted.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The total summary of every department is government, and the functions of every department are included in the government works.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Generally the local government is a system of government which is elected by the people to run the local administration and maintain development works.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This type of government is formed locally to solve local problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">In this way the extra pressure of the central government is reduced and the solution of local problems also becomes easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It is an important part of Bangladesh administration.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The local government system has spread out in both in village and urban areas of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The structure of local government in both the regions have been shown in the chart below.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">In the village area of Bangladesh, there are four layers of local government.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Among them Gram parishad is the last one.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">It is in village level.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Union parishad is the top level of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It is in Union parished.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Beside this, at upzila level there are upzila parishads and at District level there are district councils.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In urban areas there are two types of government; such as- Pourashava and City Corporation.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">City corporations perform their functions in seven divisional cities and pourashavas in other district areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Except for zila parishad, the leadership of every organ in local government is elected by the direct votes of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The tenure of every organ is five years.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">At present there are 4,498 union parishads in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">A union parishad consists of several villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Union parishad is the local government in village area.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The aim of union parishad is to remove the village problems, spread the leadership at the local level and increase mass consciousness.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The pourashava is a local government in urban areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">There are 309 pourashavas in Bangladesh at present.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">A pourashava consists of one mayor, one councillor from each ward and female councillors from the reserved seats.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The number of members of pourashava can be less or more on the basis of territory and population.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Structure of Local Govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">A upzila consists of some unions.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">There are 483 upzilas in Bangladesh at present.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">District Council A District council consists of some upzilas.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">There are 61 district councils although there are 64 districts in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The district council consists of (01) one chairman and (20) Twenty members.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Out of 20 members there will be (05) five female members.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The Chairman with all other members will be elected indirectly.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">They are elected by the votes of mayor and commissioners of all the city corporations under the district council;</sent>
				<sent id ="183">all the chairmen of upzilla, mayor and councillors of all the pourashavas and all the chairmen and members of union parishad.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">The members of parliament under the district will be the advisors of district council.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">There are seven city corporations in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Such as; Dhaka, Chittagong, Rajshahi, Khulna, Sylhet and Barisal.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">In each of them there is a city corporation.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Besides, there are city corporations also at Narayangang and Comilla.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The chief of the City Corporation is called Mayor.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">There are councillors, as a helping hand of the mayor.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The numbers of the councillors can be more or less on the basis of territory.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Local government is representative government.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">It is self-governed and beyond of direct control of the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Local government performes many welfare and developmental works at local level.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">At local level, local govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">is the key-force of all development works.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Making the planning and implementation of total development of union parishad.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Making arrangement for pure drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Helping the affected people and managing their rehabilitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Keeping environment clean and tidy in the union parishad.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Making arrangement for first aid.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Creating mass awareness and making various family planning equipments available for the implementation of family planning programs.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Making arrangement for awarding stipend to poor and meritorious students and arranging adult education for removing illiteracy.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Maintaining law and orders within the area.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Making arrangement of collecting the land tax within the area.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Creating mass awareness against the offence and informing the police if any offence or bad incident happens within the area.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Settling the local disputes to maintain peace and harmony within the area.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">A pourashava performs its functions like a union parishad.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Such as- maintaining the public health, education and public welfare activities and judicial types of works.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Making arrangements for pure water and removing the blocked water.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Controlling the selling of unhygienic and adulterated food.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Adopting plans and implementing them for maintaining a good environment in the towns.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Arranging the proper construction of the houses and homes.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Constructing and maintaining the roads and controlling vehicle movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Planting trees on both sides of the road, establishing parks and gardens and preserving open space.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">City Corporation performs its function in the metropolitan area like in the pourashava.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The functions of upzila parishad is almost the same as the functions of union parishad.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Besides this, upzila parishad takes necessary long and short term development projects including five-year plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Upzila parishad implements, supervises and coordinates various projects of the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">It constracts and maintains the link roads among different union parishads.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The functions of Zila parishad is to conduct different development programs of Zila parishad.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Zila parishad builds roads, bridges and culverts in the reserved area of upzila and pourashava.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">It arranges irrigation , preserves public health and works for the development of communication and vehicles.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
