<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-budh-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.097</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">459</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4875</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1695</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t100">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The birth of Siddhartha Gautam took place in the Lumbini garden of the ancient kingdom of Kapilavastu.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">He was the son of king Saddhodan and queen Mahamaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The sacred full -moon day of Baishakh was the auspicious moment of His birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The year was 623 B.C.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The Royal family was possessed of limitless wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">There was no deficiency in the affectionate bond of relationship with Gopa and son Rahul.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Still it appeared to Him that the social system, ethical life, sense of human values were bound under the Seven-fold wheel of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Men were deeply sunk in the whirlpool of falsehood.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Not being averse to the worldly life, but for the compassion to all beings of the universe he renounced the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">He was worried about sorrows, distresses and birth decay (.old age)-death of human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Emancipation of the human beings was thousand times better to him than the self pleasures in the family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">His great sacrifices through many births and rebirths were aimed at development of human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">He appeared in the problem ridden age of Brahmanism.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The austerity of class difference and caste hatred was then prevalent.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Sacrifices and offering rites and rituals were dominated by priests.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">On the one side was the lowest class working people and on the other side was the higher class with terrible powers.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">At that very moment the compassionate Buddha preached his doctrine.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">He emphasized on morality.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">He gave pre-eminence on deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">He proclaimed Vinay rules in accordance with the Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He taught restraint.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">He opposed pleasures and luxuries and acqusition of personal properties in the life of a monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The goal of moral teaching the Buddha was to inspire men as social beings to acquire self restraint and idealism.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">A man can achieve emancipation through Four Noble Truths.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">He advised Middle path i.e. the Noble Eightfold path.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Causal relationship between act and its result is the root of births and deaths.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The distressed women became free from the narrowness of the so called religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Sudra received the same status.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">They were inspired with the human liberalism.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Priority was given to Judgement and reationalism.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">This is the direct example of human love and respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Herein lies the sense of values inspired by teachings of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Dharma means nature, good law, virtue, good deed, way of meditation and path leading to the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Morality means discipline, rules and regulations and means or ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Dharma and morality are the roots of happiness of human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">These two are the great virtues and complimentary to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The main faculty of the Dharma is to develop humanism.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Because human-beings are social beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">There exists a close relationship between the social code and the doctrinal code.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Many social codes are followed as doctrinal codes.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Dharma and morality differ from the point of ideology.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The basic object of morality is to serve for the welfare of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The social ethic and the good ideals are meant for the welfare of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The dishonest aspects devoid of morality are unsocial.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">By doctrinal discipline is meant super-humanity and emancipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The Dharma is related to the emancipation of the beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The basis of morality lies in the relations between man and woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The only difference in doctrine (Dharma) it is a sin, in morality it is unjust.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">But despite difference in idealism, both Dharma and morality are inter- related and mutually bound to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">But even though there is a difference between the Dharma and the morality, yet both provide foundations to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Such as, there is no Dharma without an honest man, similarly without Dharma the social system cannot run smoothly.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The doctrinal consciousness depends on moral actuality.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The society upsets the doctrinal consciousness.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Except the human beings all other beings are born with their own habit or nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The beastly nature of the animals is inherent.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">They do not have any effort.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">They have nothing to do except eating and sleeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">They remain as they are.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">But a human child is not born with humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">They have to acquire humanity through great zeal.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The specialty of a human being lies in his Dharma, Dharma and character, these two are complimentary to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">In the rules and regulations of a family, social code and in doctrinal discipline the rationality of a human being gradually up.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The character of a human being has two sides, one is humanity, another is beastly.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The humanly qualities develop with the enrichment of character.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Formation of the character depends on self efforts.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The rules laid down by the Buddha for the formation of character are known as Shil (Precept).</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Another name of Shil is character.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It is also called good law.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Honest character is known as Vinay.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The Vinay Pitak is compiled on the basis of Shils.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">It is the law book for the development of humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">It is a basket of humanly virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">These are rules lead the human beings to the path of goodness and prosperity.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">These rules of conduct are not only for the order of monks and lay disciples-but also for all human beings of all ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He who abides by these rules, possesses the real humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">These rules are the moral instructions by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">This is like the nectar bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">For the full blossoming of humanity, the beastly character is also inherent.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">It has been compared with the ferocious animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Sometimes, it surpasses the ferocity of animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But character is its symptom.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Greed, antipathy illusion, egoism, arrogance- these bad tendencies are inherent in beastly character.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">As a result, being influenced by falsehood, anger and jealousy killings, theft, adultery, terrorism etc. misdeeds are committed.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He who commits bad deeds, brings misfortune for himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">He tarnishes the environment of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">He leads the family to destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He harms the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">He throws away humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Defilements of mind gradually increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">It destroys self and others and violates humanity in every step.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">So, for the enrichment and acquirement of humanity, formation of disciplined life the ideology of morality is very insignificant.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Jetavan vihar is situated beside Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">A hunter named Kok was living in a nearby village.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">He earned his livelihood by hunting in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">One morning he went to the forest with an arrow for hunting, Some hunting dogs were with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">On the way a monk was resting under the tree while going for alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">He was a erene person.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">His appearance was as if celestial.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Seeing him the hunter became angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He thought, I have seen an unsuspicious man.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Perhaps today my purpose will be fruitless.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The hunting will not be available.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Thinking so he entered into the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">After begging alms the Sthabir (monk) finished his meals sitting under the shade of the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">At this time the hunter was returning from the forest in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Seeing tile Sthabir he thought, Seeing this unsuspicious man, I am deceived.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Again he had come in front of me.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">I will kill him and shall let the dogs loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Thinking so, he let the dogs loose towards the monk with an indication to attack him (monk).</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The Sthabir said, O upasak, please do not act in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">I have done no wrong to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Please cherish loving-kindness to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The hunter said, Having met you in the morning my purpose has ended in failure.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">I have got no animal of prey in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">I would not let you go in this time.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Saying this, again he indicated the dogs to go.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The Sthabir climbed the tree being chased by the dogs.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The dogs sat arround the tree, so that he could not get down.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The hunter Kok went under the tree and said, You will not be able to save yourself even after climbing up the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The Sthabir requested him again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Paying no heed to him, the hunter threw his arrow on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The Sthabir prevented the arrow with the help of his legs more than once.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The hunter paid no heed to his request.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The feet of the Sthabir were wounded seriously.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The blood began to come out from his wounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He was feeling severe pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Loosing his sense the Sthabir lay unconscious on the branch of the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">While he lay unconscious his robes fell under the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">That robe wrapped the hunter's body.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The dogs, thought that the robe wrapped hunter as the Sthabir himself and ate him up.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Nothing was left.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The Sthabir having come back to his senses, saw the happenings.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">He threw a dry branch of the tree to the dogs.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Then the dogs thought that they had eaten up their master.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">They fled away to the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The Sthabir became repentant.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He began to think whether the man died due to the fall of his yellow robe.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">After getting down from the tree he returned slowly to the Jetavan vihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He described the entire happenings to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">He wanted to know from the Buddha whether there had been any harm to his monk life.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The Tathagata assured him and said, Your monk life is sinless and faultless.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The hunter himself had been destroyed while trying to kill an innocent and peaceful monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Not only in this life, he did evil deeds in his past life also.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">that life, due to his evil deeds, he faced unnatural death.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">It happened many many years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">He was born in a Ayurvedic physician's family.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">After his father's death he earned his livelihood by selling medicines grown in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">One day he did not find out any patient even after going round several villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In the evening he was returning home with empty hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">On the street some village boys were playing.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Seeing them, there arose a wicked intention in his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">There was a banyan tree not far off.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">In front of the hollow of that tree, a poisonous snake was sleeping twisting its body.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Seeing the snake the physician thought, With that snake I shall make the children to be bitten.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Then I will earn money after giving them treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Thinking so, he said them, Behold, my children, a myna bird is sleeping in the hollow of that tree-</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Let you see whether you can catch that myna bird?</sent>
				<sent id ="158">They did not make any delay.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">One after another they rushed to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Out of them, one intelligent boy standing behind the tree caught the snake strongly thinking it to be a myna bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">But he saw that he has caught a snake, not a myna bird.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The boy at once threw the snake being frightened of his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The snake fell upon the shoulder of the physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The snake bit the physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The Ayurvedie physician died at once.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">That physician was this hunter.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">He died again.and</sent>
				<sent id ="168">again due to evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">So the innocent man should not be given pain or sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Madness, invigilance, intoxication, drunkardness etc. are synonyms.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">A drunkard becomes devoid of sense of differentiating between small and great, high and low.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He does not have shame and fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The consequence of intoxicating drinks is very grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">It is a social disease or crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Once the Buddha Bhagavan in was residing at Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">At that time Mahaupasika Visakha had five hundred companions.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">They were habituated in intoxicating drinks.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">One day they told Visakha, O mother, we shall go for a picnic.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Visakha gave them permission.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">They took intoxicating drinks secretly with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">They drank intoxicating drinks there.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Being drunk some began to dance.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Dancing and singing they overturned the baskets of rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">They talked indecently.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">At last they slept being intoxicated.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">When the intoxication was over they saw that all things were in a haphazard condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The clothes were in a disorderly condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Seeing this, some of them became repentant, some began to roll about on the ,round in laughing, Then, they returned home in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Visakha came to know that.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">She commented, It is indeed a very wrong deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The heretics will blame me if they know it.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">They will say, the companions of the chief Upasik of Sraman Goutam drink intoxicating drinks.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Thinking so she told the ladies, You have done a great wrong deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Your husbands will also be worried and angry on you if they know it.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">It exactly happened so.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Their husbands asked about their whereabouts.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Some were in the beds, some pretended.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Understanding the fact, their husbands beat their wives severely.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Drinking intoxicant things is a very bad habit.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">This habit cannot be easily abandoned if once one is habituated.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Another day also they wanted to drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">1n that way they informed Visakha that day also.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">On hearing this, Visakha prohibited and said, Before also you have destroyed my image.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Go to your own work.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">You cannot get to the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Pretending they said, This time we will not drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">We will worship the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Giving them permission Visakha said, This is the proper time to worship the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">I also will go with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Then they wore new Saris.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Taking fruits and roots in the basket, they kept intoxicant bottle hidden in it (basket).</sent>
				<sent id ="212">They went with Visakha to the Vihar (monastery).</sent>
				<sent id ="213">In the entrance gate they went aside and drank intoxicating drinks.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">They sat in the religious congregation in front of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The Mahaupasika Visakha said, Ven.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Sir, please preach your doctrine.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The companions of Visakha lost their senses due to intoxication of the intoxicating drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Rising up they began to clap.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">They started dancing wildly.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Getting opportunity the Mar (saitan) encouraged them to do more such heinous acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The Teacher (Sattha) thought, What is this!</sent>
				<sent id ="222">I have fulfilled the perfections for so many births.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Never such thing happened.Her companions got frightened for their lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">They realized danger.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Out of that fear, even the intoxicating drinks in the stomach were digested.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The Buddha Bhagavan disappeared from the seat.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">He stood at the peak of the Sumeru mountain and radiated light from His body.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">At once every thing got clear like moon light.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The Mar got opportunity due to your drunkenness.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Where it is holy and pure there you clapped being unstrained.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">You danced recklessly.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Now you should in case your interest to extinguish your passions.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">He preached to them How is there laughter, how is there joy, as your are always burning by attachment, hatred and ignorance?</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Do you not seek a light, you who are surrounded by darkness?</sent>
				<sent id ="235">After the admonitions those five hundred lay female disciples attained the first stage of Sainthood.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Observing their deep veneration and attainment of Sainthood, the Buddha got down from the Sumeru mountain and sat on the seat.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Then Visakha prayed to the Buddha, Ven.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Sir, drinking is such a heinous sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Those disciples who are capable of attaining Sainthood would not sit gently in front of a Teacher like you, having such a great super-natural power.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">The Bhagavan replied, Yes Visakha, drinking is a great sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">By drinking many people have fallen untimely, called in misery and distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Losing properties, they passed time poorly.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Among the misconducts drinking is the worst.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The intelligent and the virtuous people do not drink intoxicant to avoid drunkenness.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">So, you should not be addicted to alcohol, hemp or marizuana, opium which are root cause to destruction or ruin action.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Because of this one loses all virtues like honour, influence, wealth etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">There is no place for them in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Do not take intoxicating drinks yourself and try to save others from the destruction.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">In the commentary Paramattha yotika of book Khuddakapatha;</sent>
				<sent id ="250">the merits of non- taking intoxicating drinks have been described nicely.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Among men and gods he is very memorious and wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Memory by dint of his heaven is attained, Lastly Nirban peace will attain he definitely.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Human life is rare.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">We have attained the human life by virtue of much meritorious deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">There are various living beings like beasts, birds, animals etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">They have no wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">They are devoid of higher life.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">They have no scope to do good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Meditation and wisdom cannot be attained without the formation of a moral life.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The Buddha laid the highest importance on the development of moral life.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Not only the Vinay Pitak but also other scriptures are full of moral teachings of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Self refuge is the best refuge.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">The superiority of a man does not lie in his birth, not in his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">The superiority of a man lies in his deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">The rivers and rivulets abandon their previous names after meeting the ocean.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Similarly, the Brahmins, the Kshatriyas, Vaisas and Sudras forsake the past names by joining in the Buddha's order.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">They were all named as Ariyas or Nobles by dint of their own noble efforts.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Instruct the sinners to come to the good path.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Give up evil deeds, perform good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Be restraint in these three doors- body, speech and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">The will-power to do good and bad deeds arises from the mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Happiness follows if one talks with a pleasant mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Sorrows follow, if one does deeds with a wicked mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Rites and rituals are external activities, victory over senses and purification of one's character are the beauties of the internal eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Involved in bad tendencies, there increase greed, antipathy and ignorance.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Destruction of all these means emancipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">To attain this, perform the singular concentration of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Kindness to all living beings and benevolence are the characteristics of Buddha's teachings.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Mother saves her only son at the risk of her life.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Thus cherish boundless love towards all living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">It is a noble deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Abstain yourself from falsehood, slandering harsh words and frivolous talks.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Speak the truth and use pleasant, sweet and meaningful words.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">All these are included in right speech.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Refrain from trading in arms, living beings, flesh, intoxicants and poison.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">These are against right livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Give up malice.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Be kind to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Be sorrowful to other sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Be happy in other's happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Look equally to happiness and misery.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">These four are loving kindness, compassion, equanimity and indifference which is called Brahmavihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Do not serve the fools.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Go in contact with the wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Worship the person who is worthy of worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">12 Feed parents, wife and children.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Acquire knowledge on truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Learn different arts and crafts.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Forgiveness, obedience to obey are the order of preceptors.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Meet with the monks and novices endowed with the qualities of the precepts and discuss about the doctrinal matters.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Do not be elated with gain.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Do not be disheartened with the loss.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Do not be proud of fame.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Do not grieve with defame.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Do not lose your temper in defamation.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Do not be delighted with happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Do not be restless in misery.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">To remain unperturbed in this way is called calm position.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">The work which results in repentance should not be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Aovid the unreligious friends and the worst persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Keep the company with beneficent friends and wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Subordination is sorrowful; One's own freedom is happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">The common people suffers in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">It is very difficult to surpass the bondage.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Once the Buddha reached a village named Kakkarapatta of Koliya to preach.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Then a householder named Vyagghapajja appeared before the Buddha and prayed, Ven.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Sir, we are passionate householders.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">We live with family of wife and children.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">We wear fine clothes of Beneras, use perfume and cosmetic.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">But we do not know the teachings as to what is pleasant in this life, what brings happiness in the next life.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Please be kind enough to preach us these teachings which brings happiness and prosperity to the householder.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">The Buddha on the prayers of the householder preached four items which bring good and happiness to the householders.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">These preaching are known as Vyagghapajjasutra.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Agriculture, trade, bringing up cattle, work of a soldier, royal services-these are the main livelihood of the householders.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">By doing these they earn their livelihood, whatever they do, they have to be skilled, diligent and technical on that subject.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Unskilled, idle and incompetent person cannot prosper.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">In the household life, the tendency to work in their respective fields are known as encouragement.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">One has always to be careful in that respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Protection of personal properties properly is known as preservation.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Devotional, meritorious, virtuous, balanced, clear-sighted and wise people are good friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Always make friendship with such people.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Converse with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Take advice from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">The goal is to reflect their merits in the life of oneself.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">The advice of the good friends helps in doing good work.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">This helps development of healthy human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">The family becomes nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Everybody is benefited.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">One has to make accounts of his income and expenditures.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">One should not be miser but should spend in accordance with his income.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Has to be economical in spending.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">There has to be proper use of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">One has to try to earn more than his expenditures.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">One has to keep close watch so that expenditure is not more than his income.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Those who cannot keep accounts on their income and expenditure become unsuccessful in all fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Those who have enough assets and still adopt misery, cannot perform good deeds in this very life and the life to come.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The life led in consideration of income and expenditure is called the disciplined life.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">These four reasons are the main causes of destruction of wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">These four causes if not shunned, the savings will be exhausted completely within a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">If these four bad habits can be shunned, householder's life become nice, prosperous and peaceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">You should observe the moral teachings preached by the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">You must follow four items namely encouragement, preservation, company of a good friend and disciplined life mentioned in Vyagghapajja Sutra.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Remember that good deeds and higher living depend on good company.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">To materialize the ideals in life needs formation of character, restraint and meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Be attentive with honest thinking, honest work and honest companion.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Whichever is harmful to youself, your family, society and the state has to be shunned with hatred.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Then you can develop a great life.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">CHAPTER TWO VANDANA [ADORATION] Vandana means praise, bowing down and prostration, salutation and adoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">To bow down to the parents or elderly and venerable person is also a part of the adoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">So, the methods of paying adoration to the parents, the elderly and venerable persons are prevalent.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">There is no system of praising the god in the doctrine of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">It is not, proper to worship and pray to other gods and godesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">To take refuge in the Triratana is the best refuge.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">There is no other refuge of the Bhuddhists.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">So, to the Buddhists, paying adoration to the Triratana is the most important.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Triratana means the Buddha, the Dharma and the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Triratana is of manyfold merits and significance.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">To gain something by praying is not the main object of paying adoration to the Triratana.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">The main object is to implement their virtues in one's own life.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">In the day to day life, their great ideals should be followed-this is desired.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Greed, antipathy and ignorance pollute the minds of the human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">By paying adoration to the Triratana, mind becomes pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Restless mind becomes calm: As a result, the encouragement to perform good deeds increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Devotion to the Dharma increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">It brings in goodness for this life as well as for the next life.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Buddha has instructed, be ye islands unto yourselves, live with the Dharma as your island.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Being an island unto oneself means to be lighted with the light of wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Living with the Dharma unto oneself means to form a religious life practising or following the words of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Therefore, recollecting the virtues of the Triratana one should adore the Triratana every day in the morning and in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Every day after rising from bed early morning, you will finish your morning duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">After that you will pay adoration to the Triratana.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">It is better to pay adoration in the Vihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Otherwise, you will pay adoration to the particular Buddha- seat where the Buddha image has been placed in your own house.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">After completing this, you should recite Panchashil [Five Precepts] and try to observe it properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Then you will pay adoration to the monks, parents and elderly venerable persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">After that you will sit for your studies in the evening also.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Collective adoration is the best: The Buddha said, The unity of the Sangha is blissful.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Similarly, collective meditation is also blissful.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">One should adore with folded hands and having knelt down.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">You will recite Pali gatha, [stanzas] attentively and in sweet tone.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Pronunciation should be proper and clear.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">These should not be recited without knowing proper meanings.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Buddho susuddho karuna mohannavo Yo'ccanta suddhavara nanalocano, Lokassa plapupakilesa ghatako Vandami Buddham ahamadarena tam.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Dhommo Padipo viya tassa satthuno Yo maggapakamata bheda bhinnako, Lokuttara yo ca tadatthadipano Vandami Dharmam ahamadarena tam.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Sangho sukhettabhyatikhetta sannito Yo ditthasanto sugatanuvodhako, Laluppahino ariyo sumedhaso Vandami Sangham ahamadarena tam.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The Buddha is the best among the purest.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">He is the ocean of compassion and opens the insight eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Destroyed of sins and killer of sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">So, I adore the Buddha with earnestness.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">The Dharmas of the Buddha has been compared with the lamp.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">That Dharma indicates path, fruition and Nectar (Nirban).</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The best supramundane Dharma beyond the planes of existences-discloses the higher truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">I am adoring the Dharma with earnestness.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">The Sangha is known as the most fertile field.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">They are included in the line up of the Buddha and the Arahants.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">The Ariya Sravakas (The Noble disciples) are without passion and desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">They are regarded as Anubruddhas.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">I am adoring the Sangha with great earnestness.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">The Buddha, the Dharma and the Sangha together are called the Triratana.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">The Buddha means, One who has attained the Bodhi or the highest knowledge (wisdom).</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Those who are emancipated by following the teachings of the Buddha, are Sravakasangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Triratana is far better than those of other gems.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">The Buddhist adore the Triratana in the morning and in the evening daily.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">This adoration is called the Triratana adoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">One who has firm faith and confidence on the Triratana and thinks them to be the only object of worship is called a Buddhist.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">b. is called the Arahant as He attained emancipation in this life and will not take rebirth.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">c. is called the Samyaksambuddha as He knew Himself rightly each of the Noble truths.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">d. is called the Vijja caranasampanna as He acquired all the knowledge (Tevijja and Atthavijja) of this world and about the precepts.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">e. is called the Sugata for His charming attaiment of the Nirban.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">f. is called the Lokavidu as He knew all about the three plane of existence (Heaven, earth and inferno).</sent>
				<sent id ="421">g. is called the Anuttara as He is unsurpassable.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">h. is called Purisadammasarathi as He leads towards the Nirban after subduina the ferocious and uncontrollable beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">i. is called the Sattha as He instructs the highest or spiritual truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">a. Being self reliant to know for oneself directly is called the Sanditthiko.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">It is called the Svakkhato as it has been explained nicely.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">It is called the Akaliko as there is no definite time for obtaining the result of the Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">This Dharma welcomes all to come and see.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">So, they get the opportunity to see with their own logic and wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">It gives light like the moon free from clouds.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">So this Dharma is fit to see and examine personally.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">It is called the Opaniyaka as it leads to the Nirban by dint of meditation on the Noble Eightfold Path (Ariya Asthangik marga).</sent>
				<sent id ="432">This Dharma is deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">The common people can not realize it easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">It is difficult to be realized by others.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Only the wise can enter into the depth.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">In this sense the Dharma of the Buddha can directly be comprehended by the wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">The disciples of the Buddha as a whole (Sravakasangha) are well on the path of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">So to say, they have adopted the right Path.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">They have taken up easy path to Nirban.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">They are called Ujupatipanna as they have followed the direct path.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">The Noble Eightfold Path is the direct path to attain Nirban.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">In this path, there is no excessive self-enjoyment or self-mortification.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">The Sangha is given to justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">The Noble Eightfold Path is called just path.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">The Sangha is on the right Path.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">The Sangha is ahuneyya i.e. worthy of being invited.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">The Sangha is the worthiest person to be given yellow robes, food, seat and bed, medicine and diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">The Sangha is worthy of invitation as giving to them brings forth much merits.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">The Sangha is pahuneyya i.e. worthy of giving service.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Pahuna means a guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">When a kinsman comes home from abroad, kind treatment is meted out to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Similar treatment is to be given to him is called pahuneyya.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">The Sangha is called Dakkhineyya being worthy of offering gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">The Sangha is worthy of salutation with folded hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">The Sangha is the best field of merit in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">As an emancipated one, the Sangha is the fertile land of growing merits.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">The above description outlines the nine qualities of the Buddha, six qualities of the Dharma and nine qualities of the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">The mind remains pleasant when the above qualities are always recollected.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">The greed, hatred and ignorance are removed from the mind.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
