<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-budh-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.318</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">333</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3715</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1282</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t109">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In the ordinary meaning Jatak is meant one who was born (Jata + ka).</sent>
				<sent id ="2">As for example Nava (new) Jatak (born).</sent>
				<sent id ="3">But in the Buddhist literature the word Jatak has been used in a special sense.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The narration of the past births of Gautam Buddha is called the Jatak.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The stories of the Jatak are instructive.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The Buddha told those stories during the time of preachings.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The main objective of the narration of Jatak was to narrate the good effects of a good deed and the consequences of an immoral deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The Buddha began a Jatak aiming at a certain disciple or a person.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The total number of Jataks is But professor Fausboll edited and had written in Pali language Jatakatthavannana with 547 Jataks.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The other three were lost in the abyss of time and could not be restored.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The stories of the Jataks are charming.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The Jatak narrations is illustrative of good behaviour, kindness to the living beings, self-restraint, greatness of Dan (generosity), superiority of moral life.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Particularly these are stories of fulfiling the Paramies (perfections) of the Buddha in His past births.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">These are helpful in forming an ideal life of the human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The stories of the Jataks are of beneficial advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">These are not fairy tales or legends.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Whenever the Buddha Bhagavan has noticed the decline, deviation, fall of a monk or of a person, at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">He has told these stories as narrations.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Buddha's advice contained in the Jataks created healthy social life.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Success and development of the family life and the purification of the personal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">You should read the Jataks.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Whenever you notice the deviation of your friends and mates, give them advice (narrate the Jataks).</sent>
				<sent id ="23">You yourself also build the habit of telling and writing a story with a moral advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">In first part i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Bartamanbastu (the current material or account) of a Jatak, there are so many accounts of political, social and religious facts of ancient India.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Two thousand and five hundred years ago who ruled the kingdoms of Kosal, Baishali and Magadha?</sent>
				<sent id ="27">What were their ways of ruling?</sent>
				<sent id ="28">To know all these things, we must depend on the information of the Jataks.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The kings of these kingdoms were Prasenjit, Koshal, Virhurhak, Udayana, Bimbisar and Ajatasatru.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Sresthis or merchants were Dhananjaya, Anathapindik, Vandhul-and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Champa, Rajgriha, Sravasti, Saketa, Kosambi and Varanasi etc. were the main cities of the ancient India.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">These were included in the Aryavatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">In Baishali the rule of heredity gave importance to democracy.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The Licchavis (the rulers of Baishali-they were of same ancestors) unitedly conducted the act of ruling the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">All of them represented the clan and got the status of a Viceroy.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Taking all such accounts from the Bartamanleastu of the Jataks the historians have written the history.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Many stories of the Jataks provide information about the rules and regulations, manners and customs of ancient time.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">In the narrations of the Jataks, prevailing - rules and regulations, political systems and social laws have been mentioned.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Stories of the Jataks have similarities with the Arabian Nights, the Bhatkatha, the Panchatantra, the Aesop's Fables.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">In the Jataks, there are the stories of sea trades.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Merchants crossed the sea with sea vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They used certain type of mariner's compass.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">These helped in the inventions of modern instruments.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">This is why archaeologists and historians like Vincent Smith have mentioned Jataks as one of the treasures of ancient history of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Long long ago during the reign of the king Brahmadatta of Varanasi, Bodhisatta was born in a merchant family.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">His name was Pandit given by the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">When he was grown up he began to trade with another merchant named Atipandit.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Two of them together with five hundred carts, full of goods, went to the villages and to the border areas and remote parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">After buying and selling they made huge profits.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">After some days they returned to Varanasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">There arose a quarrel between them about the share of profit of the trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Atipandit said, I shall take two shares, you will get one share.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Pandit being surprised asked, Why?</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The value of the goods, carts, oxen-all things we have given equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">In reply Atipandit said, Being only Pandit, you should get one share and I am being Atipandit I should get two shares.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">In this way they began exchange of heated words and there arose a dispute.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">At last Atipandit found out a solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">But it was his wickedness.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">He kept his father in a hollow of a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">And said, When we two will come here and ask, then you will say, Atipandit will get two portions.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Then after going to Bodhisatta he praised the Tree-god and said the Tree-god can say about past and future.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Whatever is prayed to him, is gained.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">If there arises any dispute he can also solve that.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Everything is known to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Let us go, my brother, to him, and solve the dispute.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The shares to be gained by us will be solved.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">In that manner they reached near the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Atipandit prayed, O god like Tree god! Please solve our dispute.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We are in problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Without you we have no other refuge.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Then the father of Atipandit changing his voice said, Let me know what is your dispute?</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Your desires of the mind will be fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Atipandit said humbly, Lord, we two together had done trade.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Have suffered so much in distant and remote places.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">I do not want to cut off the friendship.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Now you yourself mediate.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Between us who will get how much portions?</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The .answer came from the hollow of the tree-Pandit will get-one portion.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Atipandit will get double of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">You return home, you will take dividing as said by me.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Bodhisatta hearing this judgment looking at the tree began to think.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He thought, Whether there is a god, I am to know it.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">He collected straws and pieces of woods.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Filling the hollow of the tree with-these he made a fire: It flashed up fiercely.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The father of the wicked merchant came out from the hollow with half burnt body.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The whole body was dazzled.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He came down holding a branch of the tree with the hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The father of Atipandit due to unbearable pain and mental sorrow rebuked his son and praising the Bodhisatta he went home.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Atipandit being caught in his own trap causing sufferings to his father acknowledged defeat to the Bodhisatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">At last they two divided the profit equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Long long ago Bodhisatta was a reputed Achariya (teacher) in Taxila.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Five hundred Brahmin kumars (young men) took teachings from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">One of them had the name Papak.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Other students told him, Come Papak, go Papak.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">At this Papak thought, My name is ominous (an evil).</sent>
				<sent id ="96">I shall take another name.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Going to his Achariya he said, My Achariya, my name is a bad one, please give me another name.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The Achariya said, Go, you wander in different places, select a beautiful and beneficial suitable name.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">After that come back and I shall gave you another name instead of present name.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Taking leave of the Achariya, he started his journey.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">After travelling villages after villages he reached a town.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">At that day there died a man named Jivak.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">For his cremation relatives and friends were bearing him on their shoulders to the funeral place.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">He asked the relatives of the dead man, What was the name of the person?</sent>
				<sent id ="105">In reply they told, His name was Jivak, What a wonder!</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Jivak has died?</sent>
				<sent id ="107">They said, Jivak also dies, Ajivak also dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Life and death does not depend on the name.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The name is the means of knowing a thing or object.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">We are observing, you are indeed very foolish a person.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Hearing this, Papak did not feel annoyed about his name, but got an indifferent position.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Going ahead in that way he entered further into interior of that town.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">There he saw, a slave girl could not earn anything at that day.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The name of the slave girl was Dhanapali.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Papak became astonished.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">One who is Dhanapali is not able to bring the salary of even of a day?</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Their reply came-the name may be Dhanapali or Adhanapali, no one can avoid the misfortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">By thename nothing is influenced.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The name is only the identification of a person.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Hearing this, Papak abandoned the hatred against his name.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">He was much relieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Coming out from the town he again began to proceed.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Going not so far he met another person.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">That person having lost his path was looking here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Papak asked, What are you looking for?</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He said, I have lost my path.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">That is why I am thinking in which direction I should proceed.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">What is your name?</sent>
				<sent id ="129">My name is Panthak.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">What a wonder !</sent>
				<sent id ="131">One who is Panthak, how can he lose his path?</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The man said, One might be Panthak or Apanthak but whenever he mistakes his direction he can lose his path at any time.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The name is only definition, it is only the symbol of knowing a person.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">My dear, what to do with the name?</sent>
				<sent id ="135">There is no relation of the name with the work.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">I am seeing, you are a fool.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">This time Papak became totally devoid of hatred about his name.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Walking through such a long way for name is useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He went back to his teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Seeing him the Achariya asked him, O my dear son, have you come back selecting a name?</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Both of the two Dhanapali and Adhanapali are poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Panthak and Apanthak, both of them sometimes lose their paths.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Actually the name has no inner substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">By the name the object is only pointed out.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">No work is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Deeds are my success.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">So there is no need of changing my name, what is now, should remain so.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">It is the story of many many days ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">At that time in Varanasi Brahmadatta was reigning.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Then Bodhisattva was born in the womb of his chief queen.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He was named Janasandha.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">When he was grown up he went to Taxila for learning.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Being expert in different branches of learning he returned Varanasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The day he returned, at that very day king Brahmadatta freed all prisoners from the jail, for the success of his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Then he was installed as the Viceroy to the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">By his Viceroyalty the subjects passed their times happily.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">After the passage of some years, his father died.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The subjects selected him as the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Seeing this great charity the people of whole Jambudvip (modern India) were astonished.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">By the virtues of his ruling, the subjects became pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">There was no more theft and decoity.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">There remained no traces of disputes.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The jails became empty.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">He himself observed Panchashil (Five Precepts).</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Also he observed Uposathashil (Eight Precepts) on particular days.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">He was attentive to rule the kingdom according to morality and justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">He always gave advice to all to follow the path of virtue, honesty, to do their respective duties and to conduct their businesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">I shall advise them in that way.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Beating kettle drums he gathered all people of the city at the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">In this way he conducted the act of ruling the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Later on, the above mentiond ten kinds of duties were known as Dasaraj-Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In olden times in the city of Aristapur of the kingdom of Sivi, the great king Sivi was reigning.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Bodhisattva was born as his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">His name was Sivikumar.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">During boyhood he learnt different kinds of scriptures in Taxila.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">From there when he came back to the Aristapur city, the reputation of his wisdom spread everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">His father getting proof of his wisdom offered him the duty of the Viceroyalty.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">In due time, the great king Sivi died.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Sivikumar became the king of the whole country.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">He observed Dasaraj-Dharma i.e. ten different kinds of king moralities mentioned above.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He was very affectionate to his subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He began to reign according to moral rules of a king.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">One morning of the full-moon day he was sitting on the royal seat.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">At that time he remembered about his gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">He observed that he had no other thing which he had not yet offered.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">But he was not satisfied with the external things.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He desired of completing the offerings of internal things by giving parts of his body.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">If any seeker wants pieces of flesh of his body, he will also give that.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">If anybody wants his heart, he will also give that.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">If anybody wants him as slave to do household works, he giving up this royal dress will do slavery.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">In this way he thought of offering internal objects.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">At last he was determined to offer his two eyes to the seeker.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Thinking so Sivikumar bathed with sixteen jars of scented water.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">He was dressed with kingly ornaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Then riding on a well decorated At that time Deva-king Indra coming to know his desire of donating his eyes began to think.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Is Sivi king able to donate his eyes?</sent>
				<sent id ="197">It is really a difficult task.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">In this world it is a very rare incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Deva king wanted to examine the ability of the Boddhisattva to fulfil the Dan Parami (perfection in generosity).</sent>
				<sent id ="200">He came to this human-world from the place of gods (heaven) in the disguise of a blind Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He extended his hands standing on the sight of walking way of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Wishing the welfare of the king he said, Let the great king be victorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Hearing this climbing down from the elephant the king said, Brahmin, what have you said?</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The king Indra replied, O the great king, the reputation of your generosity has been greatly announced all over the three planes of existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">I am a blind man.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">You are owner of eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">I have come here from the distant country with great trouble.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Please give me an eye of yours.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">I want to see the light of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Hearing this, the Bodhisattva thought, What a great gain of mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">I sitting in the palace had thought of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Today my desire of mind will be fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">What I have not donated earlier that I will donate today.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">What a happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Sivikumar wishing to know the particulars about the seeker, said, 0 the blind Brahmin, who has sent you here to seek my eye- donation?</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Who will offer you the best beloved eyes of the human beings?</sent>
				<sent id ="217">In reply the blind Brahmin said, Who rules the heaven, that Devaraj Sakya has told me to come here.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">His queen Suja also wants to see your greatest donation.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">now fulfil my prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Please give me an eye of yours.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The king replied, 0 Brahmin, very soon your hope will be fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">You have wanted one.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">I will donate you both the eyes of mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The people of the world will see the greatness of my offerings.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">The king thought, It will not be proper to offer the eyes in front of the charity houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The courtiers and the friends will all rush here being panic-stricken.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">For this reason he took the Brahmin with him to the inner palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">He informed the royal physician Sivak.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Getting the king's order Sivak came there.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Bodhisattva ordered him, At first pick up my one eye with forceps.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The king of devas (gods) disguised as blind Brahmin was hearing all.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">He was sitting on a selected seat.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">At that time this news circulated instantly all over the city.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Everywhere there arose a noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Peers of the king, the citizens, the inhabitants of the palace all gathered there.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">On behalf of all the Commander-in-chief forbade him not to donate the eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">All the precious stones, riches and properties of the king's treasures-all give away.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Still, please don't give your light-giver eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">By my eye donation the blind Brahmin will see the light of the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">And I myself will be enlightened with the light of the Bodhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The Commander-in-chief and the ministers-all became silent.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Bodhisattva told Sivak, You are my well-wisher friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Please help me in fulfiling the Dan-Parami.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Uproot away my eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Sivak in reply said : O the great king, please think over the matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">It is too difficult to donate the eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The king said, O Sivak, don't increase your words.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Without any delay, please carry out my orders.'</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Sivak to give the king opportunity at first did not apply any hard medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Making powders of different medicines he spread all these on a blue lotus.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">That lotus he touched lightly across the right eye of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">At that moment the eye- ball turned round.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">0 the great king, think over it.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">I have still remedies?</sent>
				<sent id ="255">No brother, I am fixed in my determination.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The enlightenment is my eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">In this way the king was requested for three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Then Sivak by left hand holding the eye of the king and by right hand using an instrument gave the eye to the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Bearing excessive pain Bodhisattva gave the eye to the Brahmin and said, Take my eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">To me the Enlightened Eye is thousand times dearer and better than this eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Being delighted in this way he offered the other eye too to the Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The king of the gods putting that eye too in his eye hole went to the heaven from the king's palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Within a few days the king's eye hole became filled, but did not become as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">After a few days he thought sitting in the palace, One who is blind, what is the need for him of a kingdom?</sent>
				<sent id ="265">He wished to take monkhood in the garden after giving away the kingdom to the ministers.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">He summoned the ministers and informed them of his desire and said, I no more require the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">I am now blind, It will be sufficient if one person is given to help me.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">I shall observe the monkhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">In the neighboring garden I shall remain in mindfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">In a golden palanquin the blind king was brought to the bank of the pond of the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Causing him to sit down there the ministers came, arrangement was made for his maintenance.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">The king sitting down in the palanquin began to think over his gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">At that very moment the seat of the king Indra became heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Sakya thinking over it could understand the cause of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">He thought, Granting a boon to the king I shall make the two eyes as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Having this determination he went to the bank of that pond and began to walk to and fro not far away from the Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Hearing the sound of his feet the Bodhisattva asked, Who is there?</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Sakya said, `I am Deva-king Indra.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">I have come here to grant you a boon.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">If you wish, you can ask.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Sivi king said, I have riches, people, strength, but what is the good of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Now I have no other way but to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">The king replied, O Deva Indra, I have become blind, that is why I want to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">0 the great king, the fruit of a gift ends in the donation-it is not so.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">People hoping to get peace and tranquility in the next world make donations.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Again man does the work of a donation for having the fruit of it in this very life.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The seeker wanted an eye of yours.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">You have given two eyes of yours.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Remembering that merits make a truth-Vow (Satya-kriya).</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Your hope will certainly be fulfilled.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Owing to the influence of this truth the eyes will be regained.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Hearing this, Bodhisattva said, Deva king, if you really want to offer me eyes, then please don't indicate me no other means.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Owing to my merits the eyes will be born.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Oh great king, I am Deva-king Indra.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">But I have no power to give any one eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Let your own gifts give good result.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Sivi king at the moment made the Satya-kriya and at once there came the first eye in existence.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">He donated the Brahmin two eyes instead of one eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Due to the influence of this Satya-kriya, the second eye also appeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">These two lure not earlier eyes, again are not divine eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">This is the Satya Parami (perfection in truth) of the Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Hearing this wonderful happenings the family members of the king, courtiers, friends all gathered there.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">You also lead the life through a path of religion being careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Saying this he returned to heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Sivi king have again obtained the eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">This news spread immediately over the whole Sivi kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The people of the kingdom gathered outside the palace with material to worship the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">They with great sincerity showed their respects to the greatest king of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Bodhisattva advised them to be engaged in the pious observances of Dan (generosity), Shil (morality) and Bhavana (meditation).</sent>
				<sent id ="310">This was the greatest Dan-Parami of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Long long ago in Varanasi Brahmadatta was reigning.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">At that time Bodhisattva was born in a Brahmin family.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Gradually he grew older.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">When he became young, mother and father wanted to tie him in a family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">But his disinterested mind was not attracted.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">He took the Isi Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">In meditation he was able to attain the past memory, knowledge and concentration, Marga and fruition.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">He had many pupils.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Taking them he passed a meditational life in the Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">One of his disciples was nourishing a motherless young elephant.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">The Achariya forbade him again and again to nourish a young elephant.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Because none should believe a fierce animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Whenever they get a chance they make attacks.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">That happened actually so.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">The young elephant gradually grew up.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">In search of food it wandered in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">In the evening it came back.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">One day being enraged, killing the foster- parent it fled to the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">As it went, it never came back.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">At that time others burning the dead body of the foster parent, they all came to the Bodhisattva.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">They asked him, Bhante (Reverend Sir), what are the ways of detecting the friendship and the enmity?</sent>
				<sent id ="332">`One who works after observing the said sins of an enemy and the virtues of a friend, he is wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Bodhisattva in this way explained the friend-enemy dispositions and inspired the pupils in the path of truth.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
