<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-budh-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.285</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">316</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3561</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1240</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t108">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The contributions of the Sthabirs and the Theris in propagating and spreading the Bouddha-Dharma come first of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The descriptions are written in the verses of Sthabir-Theri as to how they built their religious lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">By reading the verses composed by them, one can build the moral life and follow the path of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The mind remains calm on reading their teachings.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The lives of the householders and the monks are guided in a proper way.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The religious life also flourishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Kings and merchants were the patrons of the Buddha-Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">They played a great role in spreading the Dharma of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">They placed the theory of the humanity of the Buddha in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They themselves were restrained, kind and generous and advised others also to live accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The main duty of the kings was to arrange education and fix the rules and regulations.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">They encouraged the subjects to do good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">By following their lives and words the personal life becomes nice, meaningful and the successfull in all respects.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Sthabir Anuruddha was born in a rich family during the time of the Buddha Padumuttar.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">One day he went to the monastery to listen the Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Then the Buddha declared one clairvoyant monk best among the monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Observing this, he also prayed to get that post.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">To fulfil that desire -he made offerings for one week.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The Buddha wished him for the fulfilment of his desire during the time of Gautam Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Afterwards at the time of the Buddha Kasyapa he was born in a rich family in Beneras.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Holding the bowl of ghee on his head he went round- the stup for the entire night.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">After the death he appeared (born) in the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">After the span of life he was born again in a poor family in Beneras.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">At that time he was given the name of Annabhar.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">He used to work in the house of a merchant named Sujama.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">One day one Pachchek Buddha was roaming for food.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Seeing the Pachchek Buddha he gave the portion of his food (meal) to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Due to great reverence he gave the portion of the housewife's food also to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Observing that, the house deity exclaimed, What a great gift!</sent>
				<sent id ="30">What a reverence!</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Even the part of his wife is given to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">There is no comparison of the givings of Annabhar.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The merchant rewarded Annabhar by one thousand rupees.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">From that day, he did not let Annabhar to do anywork by himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Annabhar looked after the household works only.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The merchant made proper arrangements for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">One day while going to see the king, he took Annabhar with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The king showed compassion to the merchant.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The merchant told the king, Your majesty, Annabhar is a very pious man.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">I have received a part of the merits in exchange of one thousand rupees.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Being pleased, the king also gave him one thousand ruppees.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">He advised him to choose a place and build a house there.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Annabhar was experiencing the result of the merits from the date he gave his food to the Pachcek Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">At the instruction of the king he was cleaning the particular place alloted for the construction of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">While levelling the high and low lands, treasure (Nidhikumbha) started to come up.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The whole place was heaped up with treasures.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Seeing this, he brought it to the notice of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">At the sight of the treasures the king asked everybody, Whether any body else in my kingdom his got such a huge treasure?</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Everybody in a voice replied, No, your mejesty, nobody has.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">From that day he was named as the Dhana sresthi.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Like this, he performed many good deeds i.e. virtuous works in different births.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">At the time of Gautam Buddha, he was born in the Sakiya clan in the city of Kapilavastu.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">His father's name was Amitodan.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">At the time of childhood he was named Anuruddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">His appearance was very handsome and soft to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">This great virtuous man was passing his days very peacefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">His father made three palaces suitable for three seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He was enjoying heavenly bliss like a son of a god.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">One day there arsoe a Chittavitarka (doubt) in his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">To solve that he appeared before the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He attained the Arahattahood while the Buddha preached him the Ar iyavamsa Sutra to subside his Chittavitarka.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">It is said that if a householder attains the last stage of sainthood i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Arahattahood, he has to be ordained immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">After ordination he utters a psalm with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">I had a Chittavitarka.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Understanding the feeling of my mind, the Buddha appeared before me by dint of His great supernatural power and preached me the Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Realizing it I learn the Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">As a result I attain Tribiddga and succeed in the Buddhasasan.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The Koshal king Prasenjit had a Brahmin named Bhargava.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">That Brahmin gave birth to a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">He was named as Ahingsak.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">At the time of his birth the Mangalayudha of the king lit up.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The king could not sleep that right.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The Brahmin at the sight of the omen thought, My son has born at the star of the thief.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He went to see the king in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">He enquired with the king, Your Mejesty, did you have good sleep?</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Where, the Achariya, the happy sleep, Could you tell me why my arms and ammunitions lit up?</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Your Mejesty, do not be frightened.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">I had a son last night.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">For him all these happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The king asked, How will he be?</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Your Majesty, he was born in the star of the thief.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">In future he will be a robber, Will he be a robber alone or will he do robbery in a gang?</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Your Majesty, he will do alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">,Should I kill him?</sent>
				<sent id ="86">No, your Highness you need not kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The Koshal king has the might to subdue him.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">At the event of his brith, he caused pains to the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">That is why, the child was named as Hingsak.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">But afterwards, at his conduct, everybody used to call him Ahingsak.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">As a result of good deeds in his past births, he had the strength of seven elephants in his body.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Ahingsak was sent to Taxila for study.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">He used to serve his teacher and his wife with great care.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In a short time he showed competence in all subjects by virtue of his merits.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">In the entire university his fame spread.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The wife of his teacher also used to feed him with affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">But the other students could not stand this.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">They started conspiracy and made the teacher sad with allegations against him.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The teacher thought, Ahingsak is very mighty and meritorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He has to be killed tactfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">One day, after finishing his studies he was going to the town.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">At that time the teacher called him.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">He told Ahingsak, O my son, you have finished your studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">You can now leave after paying my honorarium.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">He said to the teacher, Sir, very good.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">What type of honorarium you want`?</sent>
				<sent id ="107">My honorarium would be one thousand thumbs of the right hand of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The teacher thought, If he murders so many people, definitely somebody will kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Ahingsak also was himself a bit ferocious type.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">He started living in Jalini forest equipped with arms and ammunition.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">To satisfy his teacher, he started killing people.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">This forest was the junction to the paths to eight kingdoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Many people used to travel through this road.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Ahingsak used to kill one man and cut the thumb of the right hand and put it in his neck like garland.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">That is why he was called by another name, the Angulimal.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">At the ferocity of Angulimal, the entire kingdom of Kosal got terrified.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">There were-great anxieties in the mind of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">All were frightened of their own lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Message was given to Prasenjit, the king of Kosal.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He sent- some soldiers to catch the human-killer robber.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">To save the life of the son, father did not try a bit.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">But his mother Mantani became restless at the danger of her son.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">At last she rushed to the forest of Jalini like a mad person.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The passers-by tried to prevent her.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">But she did not pay heed to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">At that time the Buddha Bhagavan was staying at Jatavan.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">He came to know everything with clairvoyance i.e. the faculty of clairvoyance, attributed in a marked degree, to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">He saw, Angulimal is a owner of many good deeds done in the past births.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">On hearing the Dharma his eyes of knowledge will be opened.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">He (Buddha) decided to subdue His beastly power or strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Killing of mother or matricide is a great sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Attaining the eye of knowledge will be blocked forever.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">He will pay the honorarium to his teacher killing his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The Buddha started to save that lady (mother) and to help Angulimal to attain the Arahattahood.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">That day was the last day of human-killing of Augulimal.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">He had gathered thumbs of nine hundred and ninetynine people.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Only one was left.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">His desire would be fulfilled by killing only one man.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Augulimal saw from distance that his mother was coming.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">He rushed to her holding the sword.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Right at that time the Buddha appeared before Angulimal was lighting the whole forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">At that time Angulimal thought, Before killing that woman, I will kill the bald headed and yellow robbed monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Thinking so, he rushed towards the, Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">What a surprise!</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Even after crossing six measure of distance equal to about 2 miles, he could not catch the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">He got tired and thought, It does not take time to catch a speedy horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">But I cannot catch Sramana.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">What a surprise!</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Thinking this, Angulimal shouted in a horrible voice and said, O Sramana, stand.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The Bhagavan said, O Angulimal, I am at a standstill positon.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">He could not proceed one step further.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">He was standing spell bound.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">All efforts were in vain.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The Buddha said, I always hold back from killing the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">That is why I stand a standstill, you are always engaged in killing the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">That is why you are restless, Hearing these, the cruel heart of Angulimal got drenched in compassion.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">He threw away the arms to the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Adoring the Buddha he prayed for ordination.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">As the Buddha said, Come 0 monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">At once he got ordination getting the supernatural alms bowl and yellow robes.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Afterwards practising meditation he became an Arahant.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He uttered the psalms of pleasure-bliss of the emancipation.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">There are many verses of his past and the present birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In the past though I was Hingsak by name, I was known in the name of Ahingsak.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Only today my name Ahingsak has become true.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">I do not envy anybody as I did before.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">In the past I was widely famed in the name of thief Angulimal.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">At the time of sinking in the tide of ignorance by false-view, I took refuge to the-Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Mahaprajapati Goutami was a very noble Theri.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">She was born in Devadaha in the family of Suprabuddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">She was the youngest sister of Mahamaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The Brahmins predicted that the child of each of them would be a universal king (cakkavattiraja).</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The king Suddhodan married both the sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">A week after giving birth to Siddhartha, Mahamaya died.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Mahaprajapati Goutami herself took the responsibility in her own shoulder to look after the Buddha (Siddhartha).</sent>
				<sent id ="176">She was the mother of Nanda, the prince.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">It is said that she put the responsibility to look after her own son to the maids ; and herself brought up the Buddha (Siddhartha).</sent>
				<sent id ="178">There was a quarrel between the Sakiyas and the Koliyas over the water of the river Rohini.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">To settle that, the Buddha went to Kapilavastu from Baishali.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The desired chance for Mahaprajapati Goutami appeared.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">After the settlement of the dispute, the Buddha preached them the Kalahavivada Sutra.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Five hundred Sakiya princes joined the Sangha of the monks (order).</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Their wives under the leadership of Mahaprajapati Goutami approached the Buddha and prayed for permission to take recourse to the ordination of nuns.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">But the Buddha turned down their prayer and went back to Baishali.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Mahaprajapati and her companions not being discouraged shaved their hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Puting on yellow robes they followed the Buddha upto Baishali.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Being injured all over the feet they reached the monastery and prayed for the second time.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">At last at the mediation of Ananda, the Buddha gave them permission.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">After getting ordination, Mahaprajapati Goutami appeared before the Buddha and adored Him (the Buddha).</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The Buddha preached her the Dharma and gave her a particular object as an object of meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">After practising that Karmathana she was able to attain insight.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">In a short time she attained the last stage of sainthood.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Her five hundred companions attained the Arahattahood after hearing the Nandakovada Sutra in Jetavan.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The Buddha declared Mahaprajapati Goutami as the leader of the Theris.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Mahaprajapati Goutami got Parinirban while she was staying at Baishali.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Then she was 120 years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">With the permission-of the Buddha, she showed different types of super- natural power at the time of her passing away.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">After attaining the Arahattahood, Mahaprajapati Goutami uttered the following psalms with the happiness of her mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">1 adore the best among the best being the Buddha, the Hero.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">He has removed the sorrows of mine and many others.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The causes of all sorrows are known to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The cause of auspicious, my craving is now dried up.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">I have practised the Ariya Asthangika Marga the eradicator of sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">My knowledge was not earlier ripen.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">That is why I was born number of lives in the form of mother, father, son, brother and grandmother.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">At present I came to know from the doctrine of the Buddha that, this body is my last body i.e. this is the last birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">My cycle of birth has ended.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">I will not be reborn further.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Always be attentive to the virtues if the Sravak Sangha (attainer of path and fruition).</sent>
				<sent id ="210">They are very mighty, encouragious, meditative and energetic, They live unitedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Follow their path.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">What a surprise!</sent>
				<sent id ="213">For the welfare of many, Mahamaya gave birth to Siddhartha.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Truely, what an object of virtues that Gautam!</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He has saved the living beings from the hand of decay, disease and death.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">He destroyed all the sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The virtuous Mallikadevi was born in Kusinara.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">At the mature age Mallikadevi got married to the army Commander named Vandhul.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">After the marriage, she went to the working place of her husband the kingdom of Kosal.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Vandhul was the Commander of the army of the king Prasenjit.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The Bhagavan Buddha was staying in the Jetvan vihar at Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Mal1ika used to go to the monastery twice a day to serve the TTriratana.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">In her residence, the monks were served with foods in every 1st, 8th, 15th and 23rd day of the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Even after long conjugal life, Mallika did not have any child.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Being without issue her husband ordered her to go to her parent's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">She obeyed the order of her husband and started for parent's house at Kusinara.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">On the way back she met the Buddha in the Jetvan vihar at Sravasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">At the hope given by the Buddha, Mallika returned to her husband's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">At her sight the Commander Vandhul said, 'Why have you returned?</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Mallikadevi replied, The Bagavan has advised me to return.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Vandhul thought, The Bhagavan can see the future, my descendants may be saved, After a few days Mallika got preganant.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">She gave birth to a twin.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">In this way sixteen twins came forth in the womb of Mallika.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Everyone was strongly built physically.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">In due course of time all of them got married.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">When they went to palace together, the palace was full.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Starting from judicial works in the court everywhere the victory of Commander Vandhul was proclaimed.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The king Prasenjit Kosal got suspicious.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">One day this Vandhul Commander may capture the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">So the king conspired and killed the Commander Vandhul together with his thirty sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">The day when they were all killed, Mallika was giving food to Sariputra, Moggallayana and other monks.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Though she received the letter having the news of deaths of her husband and sons, she performed the meritorious deeds with endurance.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Not knowingly, when and how one dies, nobody knows.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The life is momentary and full of sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">The decay and disease will capture everybody one day.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Death is the natural phenomenon of the living world or living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">It is useless to mourn not knowing the end of birth and death.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">The mourning person becomes thin and fade way.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The deceased is not benifited.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">The virtuous deeds benefit the deceased one.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">After the offering Mallikadevi called her daughters-in-law and said, You are not guilty.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Your husbands got the result of their past bad deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Do not mourn.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Do not feel hatred towards the king even.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The king heard that news through a spy and asked for pardon from Mallikadevi.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The daughters-in-law went to their respective father's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Mallikadevi also went to her father's house and was engaged life long in the service of the TTriratana.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">After the Mahaparinirban of the Buddha she constructed a stup donating her cosmetic named Mahalata decorated with seven jewels.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">In due time she passed away and was born in the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">In the seventh century A.D. the Sthabir who got special reputation among the Bengali Buddhists was Shilbhadra.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">He was born in the Brahmin royal family of Samatat.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">He was born in 529 A.D. He was very studious from the very childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">To acquire knowledge he left the throne.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">At that time the whole of south Bengal was known as Samatat.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">In Samatat he could not satisfy his thirst for knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">In his youth when he is to have kingly honour and enjoyment, he came out to travell the whole of India in search of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">He came out to travel to gather knowledge on the Buddha-philosophy i.e. the doctrine of the Buddha and psychology.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Shilbhadra got admission in the University of Nalanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">There he met Achariya Dharmapal.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">After a few days he got ordination from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Seeing the bright possibility in him Achariya Dharampal gave him the Uposampada (higher Ordination).</sent>
				<sent id ="272">From the beginning he prepared himself as a fit student of the teacher (Preceptor).</sent>
				<sent id ="273">He acquired the basic principles of the Buddha -Dharma.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">He achieved mastery over the difficult subjects of the scripture.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">One Brahmin scholar of the Southern India got jealous at the depth of scholarship and the wisdom of Dharmapal and invited him to a debate.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">He accepted the challenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Shilbhadra with good will took part in that debate in place of his teacher and won.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">At that time he was thirty years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The king of Magadha being pleased, gave him a township as a prize.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">There he constructed a monastery.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">His scholarship was appreciated by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">The teachers and the students of the Nalanda Mahavihar due to their great respect to him, did never call him by name.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">He was addressed by name Dharmanidhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">He defeated the Brahmin in debate.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">So, the king of Magadha called him as the glory of Nalanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">After the death of his teacher Dharmapal he was appointed the head of the University of Nalanda.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Shilbhadra was the yogacarin and Viggan Vadi.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">In this respect he followed his preceptor.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">He passed long 105 years in the University of Nalanda in studying and in teaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">For more than 20 years, he took charge as the head of the Nalanda Mahavihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">At the time of the birth of Shilbhadra,Rampal of Vikrampur was the capital of Samatat.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">But there is a difference of opinion about this among the scholars.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">The childhood name of Shilbhadra was Dantabhadra.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Dantadeva, Dantasena as indicated.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The names of his parents could not be ascertained or known.There is no record also about his household life.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Devotion to the Dharma was the chief object of his whole life.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">The Chinese traveller Huen Tsang and Gyanaprabha were his student.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Shilbhadra was a famous author or writer.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">There is no doubt about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">In the University of Nalanda, speeches on 100 subjects were delivered every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">He had deep knowledge in each of those subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">His student Huen Tsang had mastery over 50 subjects.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Other writings were not found.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Such a great scholar of his stature is rare in this Sub-Continent.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Bishawkabi Rabindranath Tagore in his article named Bishawkabidyalayer Rup wrote praising him,On behalf of Bangladesh another story is to be remembered by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">The Sthabir who was the teacher of Huen Tsang was a Bengalee.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">His name was Shilbhadra.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">He was a king of a place (location ) in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">He left the kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Among those who used to teach with him, he was the only teacher who could explain all the scriptures and the aphorisms.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">He was not only the scholar and philosopher but also a Shilva (who observes Precepts perfectly).</sent>
				<sent id ="312">The name Shilbhadra gives evidence of fulfilment of Shils (Precepts) in monk's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Many information about his knowledge are yet to be known.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">He attained Nirban after his death at the age of 125 in the year 654 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">The early glory of Bengalee, the scholar Shilbhadra is no more with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">But his lamp of knowledge has kept brightening the Dharma of the Buddha.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
