<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-budh-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.231</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">193</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2488</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">967</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t106">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Doctrinal rules can be taken almost as laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">But here scriptural rule is appropriate.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The ceremonies which are according to the doctrinal rules, are the doctrinal ceremonies.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">In the earlier period of His preaching the Dharma, the Buddha did not prescribe any rule for performing the rites and rituals.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The Buddha prescribed the rules under various circumstances.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">As for example, the Buddha Himself did the act of giving Prabajya and Uposampada by saying, Ehi Bhikkhu (come, O Bhikkhu).</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Later on He introduced two ceremonies.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">When Rahul was given ordination without prior permission of parents, king Suddhodan raised an objection at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Due to his request a rule was made that permission of the parents be needed before giving Prabajya and Uposampada.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Due to wilful selfish acts, the rule of the Bhikkhu Uposatha was introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">In this way the Rules of Patimokkha were introduced due to the direct proofs and incidences.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">About the introduction of various rules there are elaborate descriptions in the books-the Chullavagga and the Mahavagga.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">During Prabrajya, Uposampada, Barshabas, Pravarana, Kathin Chibar Dan etc. doctrinal ceremonies are performed according to the prescribed rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Besides these Baishakh full-moon day, Ashari full-moon day, Bhadra full-moon day (Beng.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Madhu (honey) offering full-moon day), Aswin full-moon day etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Days are associated with the great incidents of the Budhra Bhagavan and celebrated as the doctrinal ceremonies.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">While giving farewell to the old year and welcoming the new year, the ceremonies of Chaitra Samkranti and Nava Barsha (The New Year) are observed.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The doctrinal ceremonies and the festivals are very useful in observing religious life.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Cutting the bondage of a family life and adopting the life of a recluse is called the Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">It is a memorable and sacred doctrinal ceremony.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">It is the first stage in seeking the path of emancipation after renunciation.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">There is custom for a Buddhist to go for Prabrajya even once in the life.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">He abandons his sinfilths-that is why he is called pabbajito.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">It is the best virtue for the householders.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">According to the Buddha if one is fallen into a hole it had to be released from that position.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">So if one is tied with the family life, it is hard to free oneself from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Men cannot be free from the illusion traps of various kinds of wants.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">That is why the Buddha Bhagavan has compared the worldly life a jail and the Prabrajya as the open sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">So many persons leaving riches, people (relatives) and kingdom accepted Prabrajya in search of Nirban.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">For this reason the parents think it as their duty to give Prabrajya to their sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">In the ideal Buddhist countries, without giving Prabrajya to the son, he is not given in marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">They take it as their first duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The seeker of the Prabrajya, first of all, is to shave (completely) his head.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Then taking the Asttapariskar (Eight requisites) used by the monks and Samaneras, he is to present himself to the Bhikkhu Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">There is no rule to give Prabrajya to a boy below seven years.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Again any Bhikkhu who is not ten years old during Bhikkhu life is not entitled to give Prabrajya to any one.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">At first he is to take Panchashil with Trisarana (three refuges).</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He is to utter Trisaran rightly and clearly.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">He who will give Prabrajya should also be free in activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">If his pronunciation is not clear, he is unfit to give Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The Prabrajya giver and the Prabrajya seeker, pronunciation of both should be clear and correct.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The Prabrajya seeker, at first doing Vandana to the present Bhikkhu Sangha will take the Ticivara in his hand round shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Bhante (Venerable sir) give me opportunity I am praying for the Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Bhante, for the second time also I am praying for the Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Bhante for the third time also I am praying for the Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">In this way you (the seeker) will pray three times for the Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Then the seeker reciting the following words will put the Ticivara in the hands of the Prabrajya giver Achariya (teacher).</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Bhante for the freeness from all sorrows and for the realization of the Nirban, please taking these kasavas (dyed garments) give me Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">(Three times to be said).</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The seeker will take that dyed garments praying again from the Achariya.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The prayer is like the above.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Only etam instead of imam and datva instead of gahetva are to be said.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The Achariya will make the seeker recite the first five of 32 elements of Asubha kammatthana.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">So these have been included in the rules of the Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">After taking the Asubha karmatthana one is to take Dashshil (ten Precepts) with the Trisarana.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">After giving the Dashshil the Achariya will call the Sramanera in a new name of his non-house (non-family) life.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">So long the seeker will remain in Prabrajya (the life of Prabrajya), this name is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The doors of body, speech and mind (three doors) are restrained.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Greed, antipathy and ignorance are pacified.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The path of evil deeds is closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He is not slipped from the path of Sarnana (Arahant).</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He remains content with small gains.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The learner becomes full.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The eagerness increases for obtaining the full ordination i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">He becomes poised of contentment in mind towards the Buddhadasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The life becomes well controlled and free from defilements.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Body and mind are pacified.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The path to distress (hell) is closed and the bliss is obtained.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He becomes able to supramundane knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The ceremony by which one is taken from Sramanera to monkhood is called the Uposampada.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">It is not lawful to give Uposampada to an unfit Samanera.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">One is to give Uposampada after he has completed the requisite qualification.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The persons having deffective limbs, indebted, blind, punished by the state, attacked with a serious disease-Ieprosy, epilepsy etc. cannot he given Uposampada.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The seeker of the Uposamapada is to take permission from his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Taking Asthapariskar used by the monks he is to take refuge to a monk.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">That very Bhikkhu is normally becomes his Upojjhaya (Preceptor).</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The ceremony of Uposampada is to be taken in the place of Sirna (boundary) where the monks perform the Uposath.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">If in any vihar there is no Simaghar, the Uposampada can also be given in a river where the ebb and flow exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">It's name is Udakasima (water boundary).</sent>
				<sent id ="80">First of all it is examined whether the seeker has the above mentioned faults.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">For the purpose of Uposampada, minimum of five Bhikkhus are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">After examination of the above defects, the seeker is to pray for Uposampada.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Venerable Sangha, for the second time also I am praying for the Uposampada.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">For obtaining the higher marga, please give me the Uposampada.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Venerable Sangha, for the third time also I am praying for the Uposampada.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">For obtaining the higher marga, please give me the Uposampada.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Then the present Sangha with the availability of permission of all gives the Uposampada to the seeker with the recitation of the Kammavaca.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Then the season (of the year), the day, the lunar day is counted.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The seeker is made to recite the four kinds of Nissaya.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Pali word Nissaya or Sanskrit word Nisraya means support, protection, observance of rules.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Those four Nissayas are : alms-food, Pamsukula civara or, picking up clothes (torn clothes).</sent>
				<sent id ="92">To lie on the root of a tree (under a tree) and urine as medicinal object (the urine of the cows as medicine).</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The newly-ordained monk learns the Dharma-Vinay from the Preceptor (Upajjhaya).</sent>
				<sent id ="94">If necessary he can also remain under a proper Achariya.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">A Bhikkhu is to pass minimum five years time under the Upajjhaya and the Achariya.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">He is to learn 227 rules prescribed in the book named Patimokkha.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Besides the Natticatutha Kamma other seven kinds of Uposampada are not prevalent today.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">It is not possible without the presence of the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Now-a-days with the help of Natticatutha Kamma the work of the Uposampada is carried on.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Among the gifts the importance of Kathin Chibar Dan is very significant.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Other gifts can be made in any time.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">But Kathin Chibar Dan can be made only once in a year and also in a fixed time period.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">In a vihar where no Bhikkhu has passed the Barshabas, Kathin Chibar Dan canot be celebrated.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Only the Kathin Chibar Dan is performed in accordance with the Vinay (rules).</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Even if the upasakas and upasikas give away Kathin Chibar that does not become kathin.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The present Bhikkhu Sangha by reciting the Kathin Chibar Kammavaca, gives the chibaras to the head of the vihar, only then they become kathin.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">If he goes anywhere he is to take with him the Kathin Chibar.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">If the Bhikkhu for any cause breaks the Barshabas there can be no Kathin Chibar Dan in that vihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The gainer of the Kathin Chibar is saved from five offences.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">He gets five Virtue-fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">In other gifts such is not seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The way of offering is also different.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Once the Bhagavan Buddha was residing in the monastery built by Anathapindika situated at Jetavan of Srabasti.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">At that time thirty monks of Patheyaka in the west zone of Kosal were all Dhutangadharins (followers of Dhautanga).</sent>
				<sent id ="115">They wished to see the Buddha during the coming Barshabas.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">They started for Srabasti from Hatheyaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">After going a long distance they saw that it is not possible to reach Srabasti before Barshabas.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">So they started the Barshabas in Saket on their way.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">There they finished the Barshabas in regular manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">But they were in anxieties due to loss of chance of seeing the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">So they reached Srabasti the very next day after the Pavarana.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The rainy season had not yet been finished.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">With wet chibaras they went to the Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The Buddha asked about the well-being of the newcomer Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">In answer they said, Seeing the Barshabas imminent we stayed in the Saketa city.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">But Srabasti is only six yojana away from Saket yet, we are deprived of seeing you.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">With much anxiety we began Barshabas.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Just now three months have ended.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">After Pravarana we have crossed muddy place with wet cloths (robes) and we are tired.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Then the Buddha in this context calling the Bhikkhus raised a doctrinal talk and directed them, O Bhikkhus, you will be dressed with Kathin Chibar.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">It is a pious act for the Bhikkhus who have completed the Barshabas.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">In the fixed day from sunrise to the sunrise of next day-the Dan can be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">If during this period of one day the weaving of the cloth, sewing, dying etc. works can be done it is better.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">There is also rule for sewing the cloths brought from the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">But before this Dan it is better to remain in Shilnussati (meditation or mindfulness on one's own Shil) and Mettabhavana (meditation on compassion to all).</sent>
				<sent id ="136">In the presence of minimum five Bhikkhus this Dan work is to be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">First taking Trisarana (three refuges) Panchashil is to be taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Then reciting the following, chibars are to be given to the present Bhikkhu Sangha : Imam kathin civaram Bhikkhusanghassa dema, kathinm attharitum.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Dutiyampi imam kathin civaram Bhikkhusanghassa dema, kathinm attharitum.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Tatiyampi imam kathin civaram Bhikkhusanghassa dema, kathinm attharitum.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">I am offering this Kathin Chibar to the Bhikkhu Sangha to make it meaningful as Kathin.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">For the second time also I am offering this Kathin Chibar to Bhikkhu Sangha to make it meaningful as Kathin.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">For the third time also I am offering this Kathin Chibar to the, Bhikkhu Sangha to make it meaningful as Kathin.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The Bhikkhu Sangha again to make that chibar according to the Vinay rules and meaningful will take to the Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">After reciting the Kammavaca with the approval of the Sangha, the civara is given to a fit Bhikkhu of the vihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">He obtains five benefit of the Kathin Chibar.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">But according to the Vinay rules the other monks of the vihar are also to approve the Kathin Chibar.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">In Sreelanka (Ceylon), Myanmar, Thailand etc. countries following Sthabirvada Buddhism, the Kathin Chibar Dan is observed with much zeal and enthusiasm.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Upasakas and Upasikas feel greater enthusiasm at this than the Bhikkhus.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">In the earlier day before the ceremony, the Vihar is decorated with pomp and grandeur.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">(Buddhist) Flags and banners are hoisted.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Gates are decorated.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">In every house guests and relatives assemble together.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">In the morning the Bhikkhu Sangha comes.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Housewives and daughters wearing clothes of differnt colours with commodities of gifts come to the Vihar.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Man and women of adjacent villages also join this.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">On this occasion the doctrinal discourse is held.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">For a long time the discussions on doctrinal subjects continue.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Afterwards the glorification songs and cultural function are arranged.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">For the whole day, various ceremonies continue.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">What a scene not seen before!</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The whole Vihar is filled with joy and uproar.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The Bhagavan Buddha (the Exalted One) described the fruits of Kathin Chibar Dan aiming at five hundred Arahat disciples (Arahants).</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The, place was Anavatatta lake of Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">There He sat surrounded by His disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It looked like a Deva Assembly.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">His seat on a fully bloomed lotus defeats the beauty of the Devaloka (the heaven).</sent>
				<sent id ="168">From this time on before thirty kappas (sk.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">kalpa) during the time of Sikhi Buddha I was born in the world of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Then I gave the Kathin Chibar to the Bhikkhu Sangha.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Upto this time I never suffered distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">I for eighteen kappas time in the Devaloka have enjoyed heavenly happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">For 34 times I have.become</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Deva king Indra.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">By the influence of the merits of this great Dan, I have for many times enjoyed the happiness of Cakkavatti kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Wherever I was born, there I was owner of every kind of Assets.Nowhere I had want of enjoyments.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">This is the fruit of my Kathin Chibar Dan.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Yavata sabbaDanni Vassasatam dada.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Dadanti Kathinm Danm nara ca atha nariy, Itthibhavam na papponti samsaranta bhavabhave.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Any woman or man if donates Kathin Chibar, they due to the influence of that donation in their future births never gets woman -birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Pancanisamsa sampannam pancadosa vivajjam, Dessi kathinm etam vipula tassa dakkhinu.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The gainer of the Kathin Chibar is saved frorn five offences and obtains five merits.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">For this reason the fruit of this (Dan) is more than the other Dans.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Yo sucikammam kareyya pasanno tassa civare, Labheyya so vimanaca kanakam dvadasa yojanam.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Labhecchara sahassanca pokkharanim sumapitam, Kapparukkhadi sampannam veluriyttnn.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The person who sews the Kathin Chibar, owing to this merit obtains twelve yojartit size golden Vimana.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He is finely decorated with Acchara, mani, pearl, Veluriya (blue mani gem) and Kappatree (the precious tree of Devaloka).</sent>
				<sent id ="188">He obtains charming heavenly tanks.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The subject matter of this chapter, with respect to the doctrine is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">You will learn the rules of the Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">These will help you also greatly while taking temporary Prabrajya and joining the ceremony of Prabrajya.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">You will take part in the doctrinal and cultural sessions on the occasion of Kathin Chibar Dan.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">You will also be inspired in the Dans.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
