<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-christ-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.558</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">284</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3734</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1129</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t117">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">When the father of a family dies, the members of the family feel they are in great distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They wonder how the family can run without the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">At this stage a family faces many problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">The same happens when a Chief of a society dies.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The arises as to who is going to take his place and do his job.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Some confusion may arise.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Similarly, when the Head of a state dies, a nation faces a crisis.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Therefore, an election is held to decide which political party is to assume power.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">So we see, in a family, in the society, or in a State, when the leader dies, many problems arise.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">At least for a short time all activities in such a family, a society or State slows down.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Our Lord Jesus Christ was the Teacher and Master of his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">When he was crucified, his disciples became confused and some doubts were there.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">They were afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Out of fear they took shelter in a room in Jerusalem, with all doors and windows closed.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">What will happen when Jesus is not with them?</sent>
				<sent id ="16">However, during the forty days after the Resurrection, Jesus appeared to them and gave them courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">He told the disciples not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait there.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">He told them, You will be baptized with the Holy Spirit and be filled with power;</sent>
				<sent id ="19">then you will be witnesses for me to the end of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Having made this promise to his disciples, Jesus ascended into heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Who is the Holy Spirit ?</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The Christians believe and the Church teaches that the Holy Spirit is the Third Person of the Holy Trinity.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">He too is God.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Because he is God, he is invisible Spirit, without any form.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">He is eternal and without beginning;</sent>
				<sent id ="26">he is the Almighty and All-knowing God;</sent>
				<sent id ="27">he is the Comforter and Counsellor;</sent>
				<sent id ="28">he is the Spirit of Truth and Love.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">These are symbols which express that he is really present.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">What Do We Mean by the Holy Trinity ?</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The Holy Trinity is mystery.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">This means that it cannot be explained by logical or intellectual arguments.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">But in faith we accept this as a revealed Truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The communion of the Three Persons in One God is known as the Trinity.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The Father is the First Person, the son is the second person and the Holy Spirit is the Third person of the Holy Trinity.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">God himself has revealed this to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Therefore, anyone who does not believe this Truth, will commit sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">In the Christian religion there are some such doctrines which an ordinary person cannot understand by his intellect.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">We are to believe the truths that God has revealed to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">It is faith that gives us courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">What is Pentecost ?</sent>
				<sent id ="42">We all know that Jesus Christ rose from the dead on the third day.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">After his Resurrection, Jesus Christ remained on this earth for forty more days.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">After that he ascended into heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Ten days after the Ascension, the Holy Spirit came down upon the Apostles in the form of fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Out of fear, Jesus disciples had locked themselves up in a room and were praying.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Since they received the Holy Spirit on the fiftieth day after the Resurrection of Jesus Christ, the day is called `Pentecost.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The Jews observe this day in commemoration of the giving of the Ten Commandments to Moses by God on Mount Sinai.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">People from different nations around the world gather in Jerusalem to observe this feast.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Before his Ascension, Jesus had promised to his Apostles :</sent>
				<sent id ="51">That God the Father would send the Holy Spirit to them to remain with them always as their Advocate.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The Apostles were waiting and praying in a room in Jerusalem for the coming of the Holy Spirit:</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Suddenly there was a noise from the sky which sounded like a strong wind blowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Do you know what happened then?</sent>
				<sent id ="55">They saw what looked like tongues of fire which spread out and touched each person there.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Everyone marvelled at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">All those present in.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">the room were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to talk in other languages, as the Spirit enabled them to speak.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Many Jews had gathered in Jerusalem to celebrate the Feast of Pentecost.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">They had come from different countries and they spoke different language.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">When they heard the noise, a large crowd gathered.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The Apostles then came out of the room and boldly began to speak about Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">And a wonderful thing happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">They were all excited, because each one of them heard the believers speaking in his own language.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">In amazement and wonder they exclaimed, These people who are talking like this are Galileans!</sent>
				<sent id ="66">How is it, then, that all of us hear them speaking in our own native languages about the great things God has done!</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Amazed and confused, they kept asking, What does this mean?</sent>
				<sent id ="68">But others made fun of the believers; saying These people are drunk !</sent>
				<sent id ="69">But Peter stood up and proclaimed loudly saying, These people are not drunk, as you suppose.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">We do not take any drinks and we are not drunk.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">How great is the power of the Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">When Judas betrayed Jesus into the hands of his enemies, all the others fled in fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Saint Peter was the eldest among the Apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Even he denied Jesus -three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But after his Resurrection, Jesus appeared to them many times.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Even then they could not get rid of their fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">But on the day of Pentecost, when they received the Holy Spirit, they began to talk about Jesus boldly in front of his enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">They had no more fear, they were not even afraid to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Enlightened by the power of the Holy Spirit they understood the meaning of the teachings of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">From that time on they began to interpret Jesus message correctly for the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Having received the Holy Spirit, they were no longer concerned about their own safety; their only concern was to do good to the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Like Jesus, they began to work many miracles of curing the blind and healing the crippled.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">So you see that the power of the Holy Spirit is just as infinite as that of the Father and the son.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">He too is Almighty God.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, generosity, gentleness, faithfulness, modesty, self-control, chastity.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Wisdom, Understanding, Counsel, Fortitude, Knowledge, Piety and Fear of the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">We should be able to live in great peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">In the previous lesson we heard that the Apostles were staying in a closed room in Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">They devoted themselves to prayer while waiting to receive the Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Once they received the Holy Spirit, they became very courageous.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">In the power of the Spirit they began to speak in different languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">When Jesus was put to death unjustly, they thought they would also be killed, and so they were afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">But when they received the Holy Spirit; all fear vanished.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">They began to speak boldly against injustice and preached the message of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Let us now see in the Bible how he began his mission of preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In accordance with the prophecy of Joel, Peter spoke thus to the crowd : Listen to these words, fellow Israelites !</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Jesus of Nazareth was a man whose divine authority was clearly proven to you by all the miracles and wonders which God performed through him.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">You yourselves know this, for it happened here among you.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">But God raised him from death, setting him free from its power, because it was impossible that death should hold him prisoner.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Peter continued, My brothers, I must speak to you plainly about our famous ancestor King David.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He died and was buried, and his grave is here with us to this very day.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">his body did not rot in the grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">God has raised this very Jesus from death, and we are all witnesses to this fact.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">He has been raised to the right-hand side of God, his Father, and has received from him the Holy Spirit, as he had promised.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">What you now see and hear is his gift that he has poured out on us.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">For it was not David who went up into heaven; rather he said this.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">When the people heard Peter speak, they were deeply repentant for their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">They asked Peter what they should do.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">For God's promise was made to you and your children, and to all who are far away-all whom the Lord our God calls to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Peter made his appeal to them and with many other words he urged them, saying, Save yourselves from the punishment coming on this wicked people!</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Many of them believed his message and were baptized.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">About three thousand people believed in the Word of Christ and were baptized, and were added to the group of believers.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">This is how the journey of the Church of Christ began on that day.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the Church of Christ began to spread in may countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Those who, after hearing Peter's message, were baptized, went back to their own land and spread the Word of Christ to their people.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">As a result the Church was established in various countries of the world, and it continues to spread even today.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">For, Jesus had commanded his disciples before he was taken up into heaven: Go throughout the whole world and preach the gospel to all mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Do not be afraid; I am with you till the end of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">When the Apostles received the Holy Spirit who had been promised by Christ, they became courageous.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Not only that, they became very responsible, for Gods power was working in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">As a result they were prepared to defy even death and began to give witness to Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">They were not hesitant to present arguments to the people to prove what they were saying by citing words of prophet Joel and David.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Saint Peter invited them to turn away from their sins and to follow the path of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Inspired by Peter's message they came to understand that the person whom they had cruelly crucified to death, was Jesus Christ the Messiah.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">In this faith they were baptized with the Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Then they went back to their own lands and preached the message of Christ to their own people who became believers.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Was not this a wonderful thing?</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The Word of God continues to be preached today and it will be in the future.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Like Christ, it is also our responsibility to preach the message of justice, truth and salvation to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Do you feel the power and the inspiration of the Holy Spirit in you ?</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Through prayer we can receive the gift of the Holy Spirit from our Lord Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">What must we do when we receive the Holy Spirit ?</sent>
				<sent id ="133">We must bear witness by doing our duties properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">People who come into contact with us should understand from our behaviour, our words and actions that we are Christian.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">We must all remember that it is our duty to preach the Word of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The Holy Spirit gives us strength and courage to speak against injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He helps us lead a holy life.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">He gives us wisdom and understanding.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He gives us the power to understand what is right and what is wrong, and to judge accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">If we have deep faith in the Holy Spirit, he helps us do the impossible, as did the Apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">O Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of your faithful with your light.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Give us your light, so that all our life we may walk in the path of holiness and justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Save us from untruth and injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Be with us and guide us.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">This we pray in the name of our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Why do you persecute me ?</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Gradually the Church began to grow in Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The Apostles kept working many signs and wonders in the name of Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">When the Pharisees, Sadducees and the High Priest saw this, they began to conspire against the Apostles and persecuted them.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">They began to put to death many believers.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">As the Church of Christ kept growing, there began persecution.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">And Saul was the main leader-among those who were persecuting.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Now let us hear about the story of persecution by this leader of Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">He was determined to persecute the Christians and wipe them out completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Then a miracle happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He was miraculously converted.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">After his conversion, his name became Paul.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The word `Paul means small.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Now let us hear the story of Saul the great persecutor.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Saul was born in Tarsus in Cilicia.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He was brought up in Jerusalem as a student of the then best scholar, Gainaliel.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Because of his superior intelligence he was made a member of the Sanhedrin.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">He became a staunch enemy of the disciples of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">With a written letter, along with some companions, he set out for Damascus on Syria on a horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Saul and his companions marched forward like great warriors.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">As they came near Damascus; a bright light from the sky flashed suddenly round him.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">He feel down from his horse and-heard a loud voice from the sky saying to him, Saul, Saul!</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Why do you persecute me.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Saul asked, Who are you, Lord ?</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The answer came, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you persecute.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Get up and go - into Damascus, and there you will be told everything that God has determined for you to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Saul and his companions, as well as the bystanders, heard the voice of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">They turned around, but could not see anyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Saul rose from the ground and - opened his eyes, but could not see a thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The bright heavenly light made him blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Saul was unable to see anything, so his companions took him by the hand and led him to Damascus.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">For three days he was not able to see, and during that time he did not eat or drink anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Then the Lord directed Ananias, a Christian, to go and restore Saul's eye- sight.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">By God's will and his blessings, Saul came to be known Paul.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Saul was converted and he became a disciple of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He is one of the greatest preachers of Christianity.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It was a great miracle that God saved the Christians of Damascus from the persecution of Saul.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Not only was God displeased with Saul, he caused him to become blind, so that he could not march into Damascus.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">By persecuting the Christians, Saul had committed great sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">As a penance for his sins God made him blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">And during the three days that he could not see anything, he did penance by not eating or drinking anything for three days.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Jesus said, `Hate the sins, but not the sinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Our God always gives the sinner opportunity to change his sinful ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Saul was also given this opportunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">So Saul was converted.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">After being baptized into Christ, he went to different places in the world to preach the word of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">There is hardly anyone else who preached Christianity in distant places more faithfully and fearlessly than him.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Be loyal and faithful, and God will forgive your sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Obey the Lord and nothing will happen to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Saul fell to the ground when he heard the voice of he Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">This fear has saved him from evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">We have a conscience to judge what is good or bad.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Our conscience is like a watchful guard who always warns us and calls us to follow directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">It is our duty to follow our conscience.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Sin cannot touch us if we follow the dictates of our conscience.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">If we happen to fall into sin, we must do penance and ask forgiveness from God.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">For God wants nothing but good for man.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Out of infinite love God has created man.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">He wants every man should be with him in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">On this earth, for the good of people he wants to make use of persons who have courage, who are conscientious and wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">God never wants that anyone is persecuted by us on this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He wants all people, irrespective of race, religion or, caste, love one another and live harmony on this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Only then there will be happiness, peace and prosperity on this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">We know about the vision Saul had.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Now we will learn about how Saul's conversion took place.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">After he saw the Lord, Jesus in a vision, he became blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">His companions took him by the hand and brought him to Damascus.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">There was a disciple in Damascus, whose name was Ananias.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The Lord appeared to him and said to him, Ananias!</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He humbly answered, Here I am, Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Ananias got frightened when heard the name of Saul.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">For he knew that this Saul was the greatest enemy of the Christians.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">And he has come to Damascus with authority from the chief priests to arrest all who worship you.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">And I myself will show him all that he must suffer for my sake.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">He will bring my message to the nations, to kings and to the people of Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">I myself will make him understand how much he will have to suffer for my name's sake.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">So Ananias went, entered the house where Saul was, and placed his hands on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">He said, Brother Saul, the Lord has sent me-Jesus himself, who appeared to you on the road as you were coming here.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">He sent me so that you might see again and be filled with the Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">He stood up and was baptized; and after he had eaten, his strength came back.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">After being baptized.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Saul stayed with the disciples in Damascus for a few days.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">He preached in Dionysus that Jesus Christ was the son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">All who heard him were amazed.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">They all knew that this man had been persecuting the Christians.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">They also knew that he had come here to arrest the Christians and take them to the chief priests.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">After many days had gone by, the Jews in Damascus met together and made plans to kill Saul.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Day and night they kept watch over him.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">But he came know ; their plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">One night Saul's followers took him and let him down through, an opening in the wall, lowering him in a basket.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Saul went back to Jerusalem and tried to join the disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">But they would not believe that he was a disciple, and they were all afraid of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">He explained to them how he had seen the Lord, how had been converted and baptized.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">He told the Apostles how boldly he had preached to the Jews in Damascus in the name of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Then he stayed with them and went all over Jerusalem, preaching boldly in the name of the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">He also talked and disputed with the Greek speaking Jews, but they tried to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">When the believers found out about this, they took Saul to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus in Cilicia.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">He did not stop preching when he went to his native town.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Even he though in his early life he had persecuted the followers of Christ, after his conversion be became one of the greatest preachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">At -first he preached in Antioch of Syria.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">From there he went to the island of Cyprus.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">From there he went to Asia Minor where he preached the Word of God and baptized many in the faith in Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">He also went to Macedonia in Greece to preach.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Later he went to Corinth.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">He wrote many letters to the believers in different places explaining to them about the faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Many of such writings have been incorporated in the Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Finally he was executed in Rome for preaching the message of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Paul did not hesitate to lay down his life for the sake of the true God and his Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">We can never tell whom God will choose to do his work.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">In his early life Saul was an enemy of the Christians and he persecuted them.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">But God chose him, a persecutor, to preach his word.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">God can bring good out of evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">He is Almighty; there is no limit to his power.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Think of cow-dung, how negligible a thing it is.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">And yet, when it turns into fertilizer, the farmers use it to grow golden crops in their fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Our life depends on the produce of the hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">If there would be no cow-dung, it would be impossible to get a good harvest from the field.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">There would be lack of food, and so people would suffer from want of food and malnutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Paul too had been an oppressor.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">But he was converted after the vision which opened up his eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">God forgave him all his sins and through his preaching glorified his Son.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">By preaching the Word of Christ, he attained great peace in his heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Every believer in Christ is an Apostle.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">It is our duty to preach the message of Christ like Paul the Apostle.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">But how can we preach the message of Christ ?</sent>
				<sent id ="271">By seeking justice and truth, by speaking the truth, by bearing witness to the truth and by doing our duties well.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Your main duty as students is to study.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">It is not right for you waste time by playing or watching T.V. or listening to the radio when are supposed to be studying.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Wherever we are, on the road, in school, in offices, or in courts, when it is time to pray, we should pray.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">In this way we can bear witness to Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Many times we too act like unbelievers, just as Paul had done.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Our minds and conscience are sometimes covered with fish scales.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">But by our faith in the Word of Christ we should remove the scales from our eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">That means, we should remove injustice and oppression from our lives, and live like good Christians.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">We have to witness to the ideals of Christ by being kind to, those who are poor, suffering and helpless.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">We have to courageously oppose, injustices.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">When I realize that, what I am doing is wrong, then I should give it up right a way.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">I should not oppress either the strong or the weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">We should always be respectful towards other religions.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
