<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-christ-10</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.402</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">382</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4897</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1400</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t112">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">God who is love, created man and this earth out of love.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">But man committed sin by disobedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">In course of time, man's sins filled the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">But God did not sit idle.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">He wanted to save man and this earth, the objects of his love, from sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">He wanted man to come back to him, just as a kind father wants his wayward son to come back.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Therefore, God sent his Beloved Son Jesus to this earth, so that mankind may be saved from their sins:</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Jesus came to this earth to give life to men.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Those who follow Jesus receive life.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Relationship with Jesus is the greatest and the most important thing in man's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">To believe in Jesus means to accept his ideals wholehearted.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">It means to build a personal and healthy relationship with Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">This becomes possible when we go him, know him intimately and follow him.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">In this way man can overcome sins and death.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">A doctor cures a patient suffering from various illnesses by treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">However, more important- than medical knowledge and experience is the doctor's relationship with the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">If a patient does not disclose his problems to the doctor clearly, the Doctor can not prescribe the right kind of medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Hence a good relationship between the doctor and the patient is very important.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Jesus came to us as a physician and he still wants to come.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Jesus did much more for us what a doctor does for a patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">In order to give us life, he has laid down his own life.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Jesus said, I came that they may have life, and have it abundantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Jesus came to save us from our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The wages of sin is death, but he came to this earth to save us from death and to give us life.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">If we love him and obey his commandments, then Jesus will give us eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Jesus completed his salvific mission by his suffering and death for mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">His suffering, death and Resurrection are his greatest works on our behalf.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">These last acts of Jesus are the greatest proof that he is our Saviour and Redeemer.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">In this lesson we will learn about the true identity of Jesus as the giver of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">In a village named Bethany, there was a man named Lazarus who was very sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">He had two sisters : Mary and Martha.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Jesus loved them very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">They sent the news of Lazarus sickness to Jesus, so that he could come and heal him.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">In order to reveal the glory of God, Jesus set out for Bethany to heal Lazarus.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">When he reached Bethany, he was told that it was already four days that Lazarus had died and he had been buried.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">People used to think that the body begins to decompose four days after the death.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Many people came to console Martha and Mary.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">When Martha heard that Jesus was on his way, she went out to meet him and Mary stayed at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Martha could not understand what Jesus meant.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">So she said, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life;</sent>
				<sent id ="44">he who believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and whoever lives and believes in me shall never die.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Then he asked Martha, Do you believe this ?</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Martha answered, Yes, Lord; I believe that you are the Christ, the son of God, he who is coming into the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Having said this, Martha went into the room and called Mary quietly saying, The Teacher is here and is calling for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">And then Martha and Mary came to Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Now Jesus had not yet come to the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Mary fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not .have</sent>
				<sent id ="51">She was weeping and those who had come there to console them began to weep.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Jesus was deeply moved in spirit and troubled.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">He asked them, Where have you laid him ?</sent>
				<sent id ="54">They took Jesus near Lazaxus grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Everyone knew, how much Jesus loved Lazarus.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Some of them remembered that Jesus had given sight to the blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">They kept saying to themselves, he could have saved Lazarus.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb; it was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Jesus told the people to remove the stone.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Martha said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odour, for he has been dead four days.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you would believe you would see the glory of God?</sent>
				<sent id ="62">So they took away the stone.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">And Jesus lifted his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The dead man came out, his hands and feet bound with bandages, and his face wrapped with a cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Jesus said to them, Unbind him, and let him go.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Many who came there, seeing this great miracle, believed in Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">We can learn many things about death and eternal life from this event.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">This saying of Jesus: I am the resurrection and the life;</sent>
				<sent id ="69">he who believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and whoever lives and believes in me shall never die.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">the Christian faith in death and eternal life has been proclaimed.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Jesus means to say that whoever lives and believes in him, need have no fear of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The eternal life begins with faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">This eternal life is the experience of heavenly peace, joy and love.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Jesus came in the world to give his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">But he cannot give us, this life unless we build a relationship of faith and love with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Let us try to become good friends of Jesus like Martha, Mary and Lazarus, so that we may gain eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">This eternal life cannot be enjoyed merely by keeping relationship with Jesus, unless at the same time we express it in our relationship with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">It is through fulfilling our duties towards the poor, the suffering and the downtrodden that we can build close relationship with Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">This has been wonderfully expressed in the accounts of the Last Judgement in Mathew's Gospel.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">God is seated on his heavenly throne for the Last Judgment, surrounded by the angels.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">In front of him there people from all nations of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">They have been divided into two groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Just as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats, so people have men separated.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">At the right hand side stood the good people who were humble like the sheep.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">God praised them and rewarded them with eternal life in his heavenly Kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">For they had served God through serving men in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">They fed the hungry, gave drinks to the thirsty, shelter to the homeless, clothes to the naked.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">When someone was sick or in prison, they went to visit him.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">In this way they served people in their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">So they asked when they had served the Lord God.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">And God answered, You served me when, you served the needy.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Those people are considered true children of God who, inspired by divine love, love and serve others.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The eternal life is for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The people at the left hand side were like goats and they received curse and punishment in hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">For they did not help people in their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">They did riot understand when they failed to serve God.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">But God said, When you did not do it to least of these, you did it not to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">So they have to suffer punishment in hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">A famous writer, Jean Vanier, wrote a story about the believers entering into heaven in his book called The Way of the Pilgrims:</sent>
				<sent id ="100">When the pilgrims arrived at the gate of heaven, the angels came to welcome them.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">For this reason, the king, i.e., God, invited them to enter into heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">There they received form him the crown of glory.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">A grave is a sign of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">After we place the corpse in the grave, we think everything is over.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">To our physical eyes it seems to be the case.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">But this is not so, when we look at it with the eyes of faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Jesus has given us eyes of faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">So, now we see death as a door to a new life.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">It is our faith in Jesus that makes it possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Lazarus is a symbol of all of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">We too will one day be placed in the grave.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">But we have nothing to fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Jesus will raise the believers back to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Jesus and his disciples went out to the Mount of Olives.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Jesus entered the Garden of Gethsemane and started praying.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">At a distance his disciples, were sleeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Jesus returned to his disciples and asked them to stay awake.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">He told them that in a short while he would be betrayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Jesus was still speaking when Judas, one of his disciples, arrived.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">With him was a large crowd armed with swords and clubs.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">They had been sent by the chief priests and the elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Judas had given them a signal that the man he kisses would be Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">They should arrest him.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Accordingly Judas went straight to Jesus and kissed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Jesus said, Be quick about it, friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Then those people arrested Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">One of the disciples got excited, and the drew his sword and struck at the High Priest's slave, cutting off his ear.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">But told him not to stop them.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He said, Put your sword back-in its place.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">All who take the sword will die by the sword.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Everything is happening according to God's plan.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Otherwise God himself could have protected me.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Every day I sat down and taught in the Temple, and you did not arrest me.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">All this happened in order to make what the prophets wrote in the Scriptures come true.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Then all the disciples left him and ran away one by one.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Why didn't he resist them?</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Certainly he could have resisted.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Instead we see in this the great humility and love of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Moreover, he accepted God's will.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">First of all, we notice Jesus attitude towards Judas.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">He addressed him as `friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Judas betrayed Jesus with a kiss which is the sign of intimate friendship.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Even then Jesus sincerely accepted him as a friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">He did not rebuke him.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Secondly, people came to arrest him with swords and clubs.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">They probably thought they would meet with resistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">But Jesus proved them wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">For he does not depend on swords or earthly power to win over people's hearts:</sent>
				<sent id ="149">On the contrary, he depends on God's love and patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">That is how he finally overcame the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Thirdly, he rebuked one of the disciple who drew his sword.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">They did not really get to know who Jesus was, even after living with him for so long so intimately.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">That is why one of them drew a sword and tried to resist Jesus enemies by cutting off someones ear.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Jesus never carried any arms.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Most of the time the use of arms excites the enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Therefore, Jesus taught his disciples even in this moment of crisis that love is the most powerful weapon which can win over an enemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">But the disciples failed to understand this and when they were unable to resist, they fled away in fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">They abandoned their dear Master to the enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">We can learn a few lessons from this incident of Jesus's arrest for our practical life.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Judas was one of the , Twelve Apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Just the mere thought is frightening.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">They lived with Jesus, heard his sermons, saw him work miracles; and yet one of them became a traitor!</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Such seems to be the case all the time.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">There is always someone who works against his own people.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We call them traitors.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Mirzafar was the General under Nawab Siraj-ud-Dowla, the last ruler of Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">For this petty self-interest he betrayed his own country and gave over the freedom of Bengal to the British.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Many were like this during our Liberation War.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">They are known as razakars and al-Badars.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">We certainly cannot and we won't be able to tolerate such traitors.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">But Jesus has shown his infinite love and generosity towards them by forgiving Judas.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">We too have the experience of being opposed by someone when we try to do something good.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">But we should never despair or lose hope.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">There is no need to consider them enemies and to be anxious to wipe them out.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">We must go on doing what is just, true and beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Time will come when the traitors or the enemies will repent.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Either they will change, or they will suffer the consequences of their work.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Beginning from Judas, there have been many examples like this.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">We became Jesus disciples by our faith in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">We have been baptized in the love of our Lord Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">So we have to be patient with people like Judas.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">We have to resist ourselves from the thought of taking revenge and destroying our enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">In imitation of Jesus, we have to try to win over all by our love and forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">We must leave judgment to God, and we must follow the truth in accordance with God's will.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">This will be a proof for us that we have learned from the life of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">God's gracious providence is beyond our grasp.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">In imitation of Jesus, we must entrust our cares, sorrows, pain and difficulties to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">We can never do anything better than what his divine providence has ordained for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Then those who had seized Jesus led him to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had gathered.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Caiaphas could no longer hold his patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">He tore his robes and said, He has uttered blasphemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Why do we still need witnesses?</sent>
				<sent id ="194">You have now heard his blasphemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">What is your judgment?</sent>
				<sent id ="196">They answered in one voice, He deserves death.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Caiaphas then handed over Jesus to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">They spat in his face, and struck him; and some slapped him saying, Prophesy to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Who is it that struck you ?</sent>
				<sent id ="200">In this way they falsely condemned Jesus to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">But Jesus was silent like a humble lamb.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">They, however, did not have the courage to sentence Jesus to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">So on the next day they took counsel against Jesus and led him away and delivered him to Pilate the governor.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">If Pilate approves, then they will have no fear of passing death sentence to Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">When Pilate the governor saw Jesus, he asked, Are you the King of the Jews?</sent>
				<sent id ="206">He asked this question to Jesus to find out whether he was guilty of sedition.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Jesus answered, You have said so.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">At this time the chief priests and the elders started shouting against Jesus accusing him of many - things.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Pilate could not decide what he should do.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">So he asked Jesus, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you?</sent>
				<sent id ="211">But Jesus gave him no answer.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">So Pilate wondered greatly.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Now at the feast of the Passover the governor was accustomed to release for the crowd any one prisoner whom they wanted.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">And they had then a notorious prisoner, called Barabbas.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Pilate knew that it was out of envy that the Jewish leaders had delivered him up.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">The enemies of Jesus excited the people all the more and demanded that he be sentenced to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Pilate again asked them, Do you want me to release for you Jesus or Barabbas?</sent>
				<sent id ="218">They all shouted, Barabbas!</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Then Pilate asked them what he should do with: Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">They shouted saying, Let him be crucified.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Pilate said, Why what evil has he done?</sent>
				<sent id ="222">But they shouted all the more, Let him be crucified.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Pilate was a bit perplexed.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Even though he secretly desired to release Jesus, he was afraid there would be a riot.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">So he took water and washed his hands before the crow, saying, I am innocent of this man's blood; see to it yourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">And all the people answered, His blood be on us and on our children!</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Then Pilate released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, delivered him to the soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the praetorium, and they gathered the whole battalion before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">They started making fun of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">And kneeling before him they mocked, him, saying, Hail.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">King of the Jews.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">And they spat upon him, and took the reed and struck him on the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">In this way they mocked him and made fun of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Then they stripped him of the robe, and put his own clothes on him, and let him away to crucify him.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Surely we feel pain at seeing this unjust trial, mocking and torture by Jesus's enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">But this too reveals to us some of the realities of the world around us.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The Jews believed in God.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">They thought they were the chosen people of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">But when God's salvation came to them through Jesus, they did not welcome it.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Pride and religious fanaticism made them blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">That is why they put Jesus to an unjust trial.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The condemned Jesus to death under the pretext of safeguarding their religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">But even in the midst of an unjust trial, mockery and torture, Jesus did not forget that he was the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Therefore, he was not afraid to say in the presence of Caiaphas that he was the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">He also admitted to Pilate that he was the King of the Jews.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">He did not hide his true identity out of fear of his enemies and imminent death.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">In the eyes of the world his death was a defeat, but in the real sense he gained eternal victory.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">This truth will be acknowledged some day.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The victory of the truth is sure and certain, and on that day all people will come to know him and accept him.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">They will accept him as their true King.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">In our consideration, Pilate is an unjust judge.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">For he passed death sentence on a man whom he knew to be innocent, out of craving for power and petty self interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">It is a greater offence to go against the truth knowingly rather than by ignorance.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Pilate could not avoid his responsibility by merely washing off his hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">He will be In any circumstance of our life, if we accept the mediation of Christ, everything will be well with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">And we will be able to look at our enemies with Jesus's eyes of understanding and forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">As they were driving Jesus to the place where he would be crucified, he could no longer bear the heavy cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">He fell on the ground again and again, and the soldiers kept torturing him.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">They came upon a man of Cyrene, Simon by name; this man they compelled to carry his cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">They offered him wine to drink, mingled with gall, so that the feeling of pain becomes less.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">But when he tasted it, he would not drink it.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots; then they, sat down and kept watch over him there.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Over his head they put the charge against him, which read, This is Jesus the King of the Jews.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Those who passed by derided him, not knowing what they were doing.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Some of them were saying, You who would destroy the Temple and build it in three days, save, yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The chief priests, along with the others, mockingly said, He is the King of Israel; he saved others, let him save himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Some others said, He trusts in God; let God deliver him now, if he desires him; for he said, `I am the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">From 12.00 O'clock, there was darkness over all the land.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">This was a very painful prayer of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">But the people did not understand it.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Jesus addressed God as `Eli in his own language .</sent>
				<sent id ="276">So some said, This man is calling Elijah.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">But the others said, Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to save him!</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Jesus could not bear any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">He cried again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">The earth shook and the rocks were split; the tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">The centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus, were filled with awe, and said, Truly this was the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Many women had come there following Jesus, were looking on from afar.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">In this episode, first of all we see Jesus carrying a heavy cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Jesus had told his disciples that he who wants to follow him must take up his cross and follow him.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Simon of Cyrene was privileged to carry Jesus cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">We too have to take up our own cross if we want to follow Jesus as his true disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">The Cross is the symbol of pain and suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">This is what Jesus called bearing the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The burden of Jesus cross will be less, if we carry that cross like Simon.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">At the birth of Jesus, the wise Men presented him gifts as to a King, and at his death, his enemies mockingly called him a`King.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">This is how God revealed that Jesus is truly the King.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">He is the Saviour of mankind, he is the King.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">We pray that we too may believe like the centurion that Jesus is the Son of God, he is our Lord and Saviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">The suffering and the death of Jesus on the cross does not mean defeat.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">It may be so in the eyes of the world, but in truth this was Jesus victory.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">He carried the burden of the sins of all men and died on the cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">By laying down his own life, he saved mankind from their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Therefore, this was his greatest and most glorious achievement.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Through his death he revealed God's infinite love for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">We too can glory this death of Jesus by loving him and living for others.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">He showed us his love by accepting suffering; let us show him our love by accepting suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">After Jesus breathed his last, it was evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">But who is to bury Jesus body?</sent>
				<sent id ="304">The disciples were not around.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Those who were around did not have the courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Finally, a rich man form Arimathea, named Joseph went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">He was known to Pilate and he was a disciple of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were there.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">They had helped Joseph upto now, and then kept sitting opposite the sepulcher.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Next day, the chief priests and the Pharisees could not rest secure.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Then it will not be possible to unveil their fraud.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">So, Pilate let them have a guard of soldiers.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Now they were happy that they could guard the sepulcher as they wanted.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">They went and made the sepulcher secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Death is ordained for every man, and no one can avoid it.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">So Jesus accepted his death.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">After his death we discover this disciple of his; Joseph of Arimathea, whose name is not mentioned anywhere else.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">He was not one, of the Twelve, but nonetheless he was a disciple.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Therefore, he had enough courage to come forward after the death of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">In his Gospel St. Mark says of him, He was a respected member of the Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">St. Luke says that he was a good and righteous man.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">from this we can gather that even though the Jews were so fanatic and pharisaic, Jesus had some faithful and devoted friends among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">We cannot consider everyone of a race or a nation to be bad by making a generalization.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">There are always people who oppose injustice, falsehood and violence.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">There were some women who remained loyal and devoted to Jesus till the end.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Just as they were present at the time of his burial, so did they become witnesses of his Resurrection.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Faith and devotion enriches a person's experience, and such experiences bring joy to that person.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Let us now look at the other side; viz., his enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Even after the death of Jesus they were afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">With Pilate's permission they had sealed the sepulcher and posted a guard, The Devil has power, but he is always weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">For truth cannot be suppressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Evil persons always try to suppress the truth, and glorify the falsehood.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">But the truth of the resurrection from the dead will one day stand by itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">The victory of the truth is sure and certain, and he power of Satan cannot resist it,</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Rabindranath Tagore said this about the suffering and death of Jesus :</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Suffering out of love is the crowning glory of renunciation:</sent>
				<sent id ="337">it is through love than man overcomes death, and glorifies the power of the soul and its bliss above all things.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">There was polish priest whose was Maximillian Kolbe.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">In 1939, when Hitler captured Poland, Father Kolbe was taken as a prisoner!</sent>
				<sent id ="340">He died in the concentration camp amidst hellish torture and persecution.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">One of the prisoners who was released later, said of him, Whatever he had he shared with others, bread, soup, time, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">He did everything in a heroic way.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">His selflessness could be measured only by his total surrender to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">One day a high official in the prison kicked him very hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Surprised at being kicked he just said, May God forgive you.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Perhaps he is the only one who remained free in this hellist place.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Jesus death is not merely a matter of sorrow for us, it is a matter of joy too.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">For through his death Jesus brought us new life and proclaimed the victory of the Truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Dear Lord, out of love for us you died for our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Have mercy on us.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Help us to accept this life of love -which you wanted to give to its.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Help us to follow the way of the Cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Give us courage to fight for the truth, so that we may be saved.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">After the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the sepulcher.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Suddenly there was a great earthquake; for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Out of fear the guards trembled and became like dead men.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">The angel sat on the rock that had been rolled back.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">His appearance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The angel said to the women, Do not be afraid; for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">He is not here; for he has risen, as he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Come, see the place where he lay.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">The angel also told them that they should go quickly and tell the disciples about the Resurrection of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Jesus will meet them in Galilee.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">So the women departed quickly form the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">And behold, Jesus met them and said, Hail!</sent>
				<sent id ="366">And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid; go and tell my brethren to go, to Galilee, and there they will see me.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">When the women left, the guard could not decide what they should do.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">They went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">The chief priests got frightened.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">So they took the money and did as they were directed.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">They spread the rumour around that Jesus disciples stole away his body.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">After they received news from the women, Jesus disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">And when they saw the risen Lord, they worshipped him; but some doubted.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">And Jesus came near them and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Teach them to observe all that I have commanded you; and lo, I am with you always, to the close of the age.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">The Resurrection is a mystery.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">It cannot be understood without faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">The first proof of Jesus Resurrection is the empty tomb.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Death is the end of mans life.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
