<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-christ-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.426</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">176</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2061</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">761</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t113">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Those who love God and have faith in him, receive help from him, and God gives them special power.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">In the Bible we see that the Prophets were especially bleased by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The second Book of Kings, in Chapter Five, speaks of such a prophet called Elisha who lived in Samaria in the Land of Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">He had received special favours from God.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">He performed many miracles in the name of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">We can learn about him by reading Chapters five and six of the Second Book of Kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Besides Elisha, there are mentions of many other prophets in the Bible who were given special powers.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">This was so because they all had love for God.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">They received special powers from God because he was pleased with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">We marvel at the way they spoke, at their ability to face challenges, at their wisdom and skill in their own profession.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Now listen to the story of how the prophet Elisha cured Naaman who was a leper.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Naaman was a commander in the army of the king of Aram which is situated next to Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Its present name is Syria.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Aram was a rich and powerful nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The king of Aram had won many battles with the help of Naaman, a commander in his army.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">But this great hero was suffering from leprosy.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Once upon a time, the Aramites conquered Samaria in Israel under the leadership of Naaman.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">At the end of the battle, a pretty young girl was carried away from Israel and she was made the servant of Naaman's wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The girl was very simple, honest and devoted to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Naaman's wife was very pleased with the girl's work and good behavior.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">She developed great love and affection for her.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">He works many miracles.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">I wish that my master could go to the prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He would cure him of his disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Namnan's wife believed what the girl told her.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">So she told Naaman about Prophet Elisha of Salnaria.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Naaman reported that to the king of Aram.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Go and get ready.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The letter that he took read: This letter will introduce my officer Naaman.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">I want you to cure him of his disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">How can he send this man to me to cure him of his leprosy ?</sent>
				<sent id ="32">It's plain that he is trying to start a quarrel with me!</sent>
				<sent id ="33">By this time, Elisha heard about this Naaman.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">He sent word to the king of Israel saying, Why are you so upset ?</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Send Naaman to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The king did as he was told to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He sent Naaman to Elisha.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Naaman reached the door of Elisha along with his gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">But Elisha did not come out of his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Elisha meant to let Naaman understand that he had no power of his own to cure him.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">It is God who heals.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">I could have washed in them and been cured!</sent>
				<sent id ="43">I thought that he would at least come out to me, wave his hand over the diseased spot and cure me.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Saying so, he was about to turn around his chariot and leave.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Since people talk so much about the power of Elisha, perhaps if you bath in the River Jordan you can be cured.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">So Naaman went down to the Jordan and dipped himself in it seven times.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">What a miracle!</sent>
				<sent id ="48">At once Naaman was completely cured of his leprosy.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">His flesh became firm and healthy, like that of a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Then he bowed his head to God in gratitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">He said to Elisha, Now I know for sure that you are a true servant of the Almighty God.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">I will not worship any god except the Lord, the God of Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Forgive me for getting angry with you, and please accept a gift from me.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Elisha replied, I did not cure you by my own power.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">It is my God who has cured you.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">I am only his servant.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">You have been cured because you believed in true God.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Now you can go home in peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Serve this God alone in all circumstances of your life and trust in him in all your works.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The Prophet Elisha did not accept any of the gifts that Naaman, the commander of the army, had brought.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Naaman then bade farewell to the Prophet Elisha and returned to his own country rejoicing and thanking the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He told the king of Aram and all his people about the power of the true God.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">We too receive God's mercy and help often and in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">When we pray and perform acts of charity, we receive God's blessings.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">We should be grateful to God for all his blessings and praise him for his wonderful deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">We should give up sins and shun the way of unjustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">We should live justly and honestly.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Only then we will find happiness and peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Our hearts will be filled with joy that comes from the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Greed is a kind of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">In the Ten Commandments we read, Do not desire what belongs to someone else.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">For greed leads man to commit many other sins and evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It leads man astray.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Greed destroys peace of mind and brings down sufferings in the personal life as well as in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">God does not love a greedy person.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">On the contrary God punishes man for his sins of greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Now let us listen to the story of Gehazi and what consequences he had to face on account of his greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">He was pleased to see Naaman being converted and putting his faith in God.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He blessed him and bade him farewell.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">When Naaman had gone a short distance, Elisha's servant Gehazi said to himself, How is it!</sent>
				<sent id ="81">My master has let Naaman get away without paying a thing!</sent>
				<sent id ="82">This cannot be.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">So he ran after Navnan to get something from him.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">When Naaman saw a man running after him, he got down from his chariot to meet him.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Gehazi walked up to him and greeted him.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">They are the disciples of my master Elisha.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He would like you to give them one, talent silver and two changes of fine clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">I have been sent to you with this request.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Naaman was very pleased to hear this.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He said, Not one telent, please take two talent silver for the two youths.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Gehazi took the silver and the clothes from them and carried them quietly into his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Then he went back to Elisha and stood in front of him as if nothing had happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Elisha asked Gehazi, Where have you been?</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Gehazi answered, No where, sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">I was around here.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">But Elisha said, Why are you telling, lies?</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Wasn't I there in spirit when Naaman got out of his chariot to meet you and gave you silver pieces and clothes?</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Didn't I see all this happening?</sent>
				<sent id ="99">How greedy you are!</sent>
				<sent id ="100">You thought you would buy property and sheep and cattle in exchange for the silver pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Isn't it so?</sent>
				<sent id ="102">And now Naaman's disease will come upon you.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">As soon as Gehazi went out of the house, he had the disease- his skin was as white as snow.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">He suffered from leprosy till the end of his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Do you now understand how God punishes those who are greedy and tell lies?</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Robin vas the oldest of all and he was very naughty.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In school he was often involved in fights.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He was disobedient to the teachers and inattentive in his studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Peter, Sudhir and Chandan follow Robin as their leader.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">By the side of the road on which they went to school, was the home of Gedi's mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">She was a poor old widow.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">She used to live there with her daughter Gedi who was also a widow and two little grandchildren.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The house had a thatched roof and looked shabby.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The grand-daughter was about six or seven years old and the grandson was four years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The name of the grand-daughter was Nita and the name of the grandson was Pintu.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The family lived hard life on the little money that Gedi earned by working in the neighbor's homes.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">On the south side-of their house there was a mango tree and a berry tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Last year the mango tree had given lots of fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">On their way back home, Robin and his friends stole many of the mangoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Gedi's mother raised lots of hue and cry about this and finally she reported it to the teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The headmaster called them in and scolded them saying, You see, Gedi's mother is a poor widow.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">You should not steal mangoes from her tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">You may ask her for one or two, if you wish.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">It is a sin to desire and to steal what belongs to someone else.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">But a thief does not listen to a pious advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">They continued to steal mangoes from her tree whenever they got a chance.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">They not only steal for themselves, but they also carry away some to their homes.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Gedi's mother reported this to the headmaster and to the parents of Robin, Peter, Sudhir and Chandan.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Their parents also gave them correction and gave them advice not to do such a thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This year the berry tree gave lots of fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The berries were quite big and when they were ripe they looked reddish.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Gedi's mother picks the berries on Wednesday and takes it to the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">She was thinking that she would be able to makes some new dresses for her grandchildren on the occasion of the coming Christmas.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Around two or three in the afternoon, Robin, Peter, Sudhir and Chandan were returning home.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Robin said, Look, the berries are ripe!</sent>
				<sent id ="136">We must eat some of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Chandan said, No, friend, it is not right to desire what belongs to someone else.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">And we should not be stealing.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">If we do, we won't be able to escape.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">All of a sudden Robin gave a big slap on Chandan's cheek and said, Get list, you hypocrite!</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Chandan then went home weeping and wiping his tears.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Sudhir also said, No, friend, I too cannot remain with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">I am also going with Charidan.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">My mother told me it is a sin to steal.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Greed must be checked.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Sudhir also walked away with Chandan.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Robin peeped into the house and saw Gedi's mother sleeping beside her grandchildren.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Slowly he climbed the tree and shook the branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Lots of big ripe berries fell on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Peter who was standing underneath the tree, began to pick up the berries and fill up his bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Hearing the noise, Gedi's mother woke up and started shouting saying, Who is there ?</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Who is plucking the berries ?</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Robin started climbing down the tree in a hurry, but his feet slipped and he fell on a date-tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Quite a few thorns from the date-tree penetrated deep into his body.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The neighbours came running and caught him.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Peter started running away and as he ran he tried to jump across a drain.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">All of a sudden his feet slipped and he fell down and broke his wrist.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">So the neighbour carried Robin and Peter to their homes.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Their parents called in the doctor and treated them for about three months.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It cost them lots of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">When the headmaster heard what had happened, he issued transfer certificates(T.C.) to Robin and Peter and dropped them from the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">From this you see, how greed makes one disobey and steal.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">And the consequences can be very serious.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">God too punishes a greedy and unjust person in some way or the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">You should take care that you do not become naughty, disobedient and greedy like Robin and Peter.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Never try to do any harm to anyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Be kind to the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Otherwise you will be punished like Robin and Peter.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">You must learn to control your desire, overcome jealousies and spirit of disobedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">You must avoid doing what is evil and sinful.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Discipline is a great quality which makes life beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It helps us overcome many trials and tribulations in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">And God too showers his blessings upon us.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Help me to overcome all greed, spirit of disobedience and sinful desires.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Create in me a spirit of justice, truth, obedience, faith and devotion which will bring me happiness and peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">I ask you this through our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
