<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-christ-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.37</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">268</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3516</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1071</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t111">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">You must have already learned how many books there are in the Old Testament.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The first five books are called Pentateuch.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The sixth book has been named JOSHUA.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">This book begins with the story of the conquest of Canaan by the Israelites under the leadership of Joshua.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Canaan is the land which God had promised to the descendants of Abraham, known as a land filled with milk and honey.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">In this chapter you will learn about the call of Joshua and his obedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">You will learn how he led the Israelite's in the ways of God inspite of all sorts of problems and difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">You will see how much benefit they derived from Joshua's faith in and obedience to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">At the same time you will also learn a lesson from the sad consequences the Israelites had to suffer as a result of their disobedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">You will then realize what blessings we receive when we remain firm in our faith and obey God.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">We show our obedience to God's will by living in accordance with the vocation each one of us has received.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Last year in your previous class you learned something about the story of Moses.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">In obedience to God's call and by his power he freed the Israelites from their bondage in Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Strengthened by God's mercy and blessings Moses led them out as far as Moab.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">This journey through the desert took long forty years.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Yet they could not reach the land promised by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Moses who had grown old by now, was shown this land by God from a distance, from Mount Nabo.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Who will be the leader of the Israelites when Moses dies ?</sent>
				<sent id ="19">God had decided this beforehand.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The Book of Numbers says that God, through Moses, had appointed Joshua as the leader to follow him.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Do you know who this Joshua was ?</sent>
				<sent id ="22">He was a son of Nun from Ephraim and one of the faithful followers of Moses.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The name `Joshua means God is salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Moses changed his name from Hoshea to Joshua.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">After the death of Moses, God appeared to Joshua in a vision.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">He said to him: My servant Moses has died.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Now you are to lead the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">You will bring them to the land beyond the Jordan which I promised to give them.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Just like Moses, Joshua was hesitant at first.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">How can an ordinary man like him fulfill such a big responsibility ?</sent>
				<sent id ="31">But the Lord gave him courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">He told him that he would be with him just as he was with Moses.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">No one will dare to oppose Joshua.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">He will conquer the land of Canaan.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">God assured Moses of his help and gave him hope; but he also warned him about one thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">He told him that just like Moses he should remain obedient to God and live according to his commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">In obedience to the Covenant the Israelites will have to observe God's commandments and everything he had spoken.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">They will have to lead holy lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">God also said to Joshua : Have courage, do not fear; for the Lord your God will be with you wherever you go.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Joshua assumed the responsibility of leading the Israelites just as God commanded him to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The people were obedient to him as they were to Moses.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Seeing his spirit of obedience to God they welcomed his leadership as the chosen people of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">This is how Joshua received his call from God and in obedience to him took on the great responsibility to lead the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Perhaps this story of Moses is new to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Try to remember that he was an ordinary man like us` He worked under Moses as a servant.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">His devotion to duties and his obedience to God prepared him for fulfilling greater his work because he or she is worthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">On the contrary, he looks for people who are obedient and faithful.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">When someone is obedient to God and trusts in him, God makes him worthy to do his work.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">We also have many things to do everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Now you are in class VIII and so you are able to understand many things and you are capable of doing many things.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Besides studies, during your free time you have some small tasks to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">You have to help your parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">From now on you will have to be faithful in everything you have to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">You have to be obedient to your parents, teachers and elders and do your duties according to their directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">He who is faithful in little things since his childhood is chosen by God to do great things.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Jesus said, Whoever is faithful in small matters will be faithful in large ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">It may be that sometimes you do not like to hear what your parents or the elders tell you.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">What they say, may not be to your liking.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">If you are obedient to them and listen to their advice, you will certainly prosper in life:</sent>
				<sent id ="60">God showers his abundant blessings on those who are obedient to their parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Let me tell you a story.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">John was the only son of his mother who was a widow.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">She used to work as a cook in a Christian institution.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">With her little income she managed her family and took care of John's studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">She had a great hope and a great dream that someday John would grow up to be a real man and her sufferings would disappear.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">So she tried to bring him up by giving him good advice and insisting that he pay attention to his studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">John was very obedient to his mother, quite unlike the other children of our times.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Out of concern for his mother he used to help her in her household works.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He used to avoid enjoing unnecessery wordly offairs and infiuences of his bad friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Do you know what the outcome of all this was?</sent>
				<sent id ="71">John passed his S.S.C. Examination very successfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">All the teachers and the students in the school conveyed their congratulations to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">From his mother's office came an offer of scholarship for higher studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">In this way, his obedience to his mother responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">God never calls someone to do opened up the door of a glorious career for John.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">You can imagine what blessings God will shower on someone who is obedient to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Joshua followed God's will in everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">He was firm in his obedience to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Therefore, God made him a great leader of the Israelites from being an ordinary man.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">If you are obedient to God and the respected elders, and do your duties faithfully, you are sure to find success in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">God will shower his abundant blessings on you.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He sent some spies in advance to look over Jericho.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">A woman named Rahab helped them in this matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Joshua understood the plan of God, for he was going to give this land into their hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">He spent three nights there and planned how they were going to cross the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The leaders who were Joshua's helpers went through the camp and gave them directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The priests would carry the Coven-ant Box of the Lord and go before them.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">All the others would follow them.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">They were to maintain a distance from the priests and stay about 100 yds behind them.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">This way there would be no danger of getting lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Then Joshua asked the people to purify themselves, so that God could work miracles before them.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Following the instructions of Joshua, the priests then set out with the Ark of the Covenant.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Then calling all the people together near him, Joshua told them what God had to say to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The God of the living was with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">He would drive out the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, and all the other tribes.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The Israelites would be victorious over them.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Then God did a wonderful thing for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">As soon as the priests carrying the Covenant Box stepped into the river, the water stopped flowing.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The people walked across on dry ground and reached Jericho.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The priests carrying the Lord's Covenant Box stood on dry ground in the middle of the Jordan until all the people had crossed over.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">They did so and kept the stones with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Finally when the priests carrying the Covenant Box reached the river bank, the river began flowing once more and flooded its banks again.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">By God's grace, all the people of Israel crossed the Jordan.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">In this way God made Joshua honourable to the people, just as he had said he would.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">They feared Joshua and honoured him as a man of God, just as they bad feared Moses.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The crossing of the Jordan by the Israelites under the leadership of Joshua teaches us about God's power and grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">God extended his mighty arms to help them because they were humble and obedient to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Inspired by Joshua's leadership, the Israelites always remained faithful and obedient to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">They lived according to God's commandments and they praised and glorified him.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Do you know what a covenant Box was?</sent>
				<sent id ="111">It was a sign or symbol of God's presence.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">It was a wooden box that could be carried from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">It was three feet and nine inches long and two feet and three inches wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">It was plaited with gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">The top of it was like a plate of gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">On it there were two statues of angels facing each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The Israelites used to carry it with them as a sign of God's invisible presence and honoured it as a source of their strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Therefore, they used to believe that God was with them and he was leading them through Joshua.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">God is with his children who are obedient and faithful to him, and in this way he uses his power for their good.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Now listen to a story of our time.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In the nineteenth century, a woman called Amy Carmichael who was a missionary, came to India.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">She had a special affection for the children and she served them with much love.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Amy dedicated everything out of love for God.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">She wished that her companions would do the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">For this reason, others often found it difficult to work with her.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Even some men were not able to work like her.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">God used her for his work.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">For Amy wanted to remain obedient to God and please him more than anything else.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The Carmichael College in Rangpur was named after her.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Now listen to a story from the life of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">One day the mother and the brothers of Jesus came to see him.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">There was a large crowd around him.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">He was told that his mother and brothers were waiting to see him.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Do you what Jesus said ?</sent>
				<sent id ="135">He said, Those who hear the word of God and keep it, are my mother and my brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">We have to have faith in God and we have to obey Him and live according to His word.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Faith is nothing abstract; true faith is doing God's will by fulfilling our duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The great poet, Rabindranath Tagore, composed a beautiful song through which one can offer himself to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Come, let us offer ourselves to him by singing that song or by reciting it as a prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Merciful Lord, let your will be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Mindful of your love I surrender at your feet in hope.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">If there be sorrow or suffering , I'll endure everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">I pretend not to know that your loving eyes are always watching, Your benevolent form I forget, I drown in the ocean of sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The Universe is filled with joy, beauty filled with happiness, I suffer on account of wrong pursuits.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Save me from my illusions by striking a hard blow, Day and night you stay in my heart washed with tears.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The humane nature does not remain the same for long.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">He cannot steadfast in the face of trails and temptations.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">God had showered wonderful blessings on Israel.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">But when they disobeyed, misfortune came upon them.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The Midianites were stronger than Israel, and the people of Israel hid from them in caves and other safe places in the hills.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Whenever the Israelites sowed any seed, the Midianites would come with the Amalekites and the desert tribes and attack them.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">They would camp on the land and destroy the crops as far south as the area round Gaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">They would take all the sheep, cattle, donkeys, and leave nothing for the Israelites to live on.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">They would come with their cattle and tents, as thick as locusts.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">They and their camels were too many to count.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">They came and devasted the land, and Israel was helpless against them.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The Israelites had taken possession of the land of Canaan by conquering one tribe after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">They were free from all oppression: But gradually they forgot the God who loved them.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Man has strong attraction to this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">When temptations come, he easily forgets God.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He gets carried away by illusions and pleasure of this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In this way he falls into darkness.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Living side by side with other nations, the same thing happened to the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Like the other nations, they also began to worship different gods and goddesses thinking that they would protect them.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">So they feared them and worshipped them.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">What were the consequences ?</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The Lord God was displeased with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">All along he had loved them so much, and so their downfall made him sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">This means that since God was displeased with the Israelites, He stopped helping them.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">An Arabian tribe known as the Midianites began to persecute and oppress them.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The Israelites were unable to protect themselves from their cruelty.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Hence they went into hiding, yet they could not escape from their oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">This happened to the Israelites because of their infidelity.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">This was the consequence of being disobedient to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">This was the consequence of their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">So you can see, how sad and shocking can be the consequences of disobedience to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Every day, at every moment, we experience God's infinite mercy and kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He provides for all our needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He nourishes us and he protects us.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">After all these, if we disobey and forget him, then we too will face such consequences.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Similarly, when we disobey our parents, teachers and the elders, the same misfortune will befall us.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">There was a news in the paper the other day.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">A certain father tried to bring up his son with all the love and affection possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">But the son gradually began to disobey his father and do mischief.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Finally the father saw no other way to control his son than handing him over to the police.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Do you think such a thing can happen?</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Parents have unbounded love for their children.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">But because of disobedience a father had to hand over his son to the police!</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Like our parents, God also loves us.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">They want our good.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">But when we fail to obey them, we invite troubles for ourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The most joyful experience of our life is to remain in God's love.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">His love knows no bounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Therefore, we should never be disobedient or unfaithful to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">It is possible for us to remain in God's love if we read the Word of God (the Bible) and pray to him regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">An example of such a prayer is given here : Holy God, look upon us with kindness, give us strength is our weakness.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Teach us that holy fear, so that I may fear only you and remain obedient to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Save us from temptations, help us to remain obedient and faithful to you all throughout our lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">We ask you this through Jesus your son our Lord who is ever obedient to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">God is loving and merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Even though he is offended by his children, he cannot remain indifferent to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">For out of love he has created them and hence he feels no peace until they return to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">When men repent for their misdeeds, he shows them his infinite mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">In the previous lesson we saw how the Israelites were being oppressed by other nations on account of their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">They were not at peace, they were miserable.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Finally they came to realise their offences.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Once again they wanted to come back to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">I rescued you from the Egyptians and from the people who fought against you here in this land.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">I drove them out as you advanced, and I gave you their land.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">But you did not listen to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Then the Israelites realized their sinful conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">They repented and asked for forgiveness from the Lord their God.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">And what did God do ?</sent>
				<sent id ="214">When he heard their cries of repentance, he sent them an angel from heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The angel of the Lord came to Gideon at Ophrah with God's message.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Gideon was the son of Joash and he was threshing some wheat in a winepress.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">It was summer time, and the wheat was just about ready to be harvested.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Gideon thought he would make bread out of the wheat he was threshing.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">But Gideon was afraid just like everyone else.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">For the enemy could come any time and rob him of the fruits of his labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The Israelites had been suffering like this for long seven years.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Gideon was almost at the point of despairing.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Tired and anxious, he said to himself, who will save us from the hands of our enemies ?</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Will God look upon us once again with kindness ?</sent>
				<sent id ="225">While thinking all these Gideon finished threshing the wheat and rested underneath a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Then he hid the sack filled with wheat in a cave and went back to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">An angel of the Lord appeared to him and said, The Lord is with you, brave and mighty man!</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Gideon said to him, If I may ask sir, why has all this happened to us if the Lord is with us ?</sent>
				<sent id ="229">In distress he uttered many such words.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The angel of the Lord gave him courage by saying that he was chosen by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">He said to him, Go with all your great strength and rescue Israel from the Midianites.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">But Gideon was afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">For his clan was the weakest in the tribe of Manasseh.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">And he was the youngest son of his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">He could not see how he could rescue the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The Lord answered, You can do it because I will help you.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">You will crush the Midianites as easily as if they were only one man.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Gideon then was given signs that God had spoken to him and that he was with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">He truly believed that God was with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">His faith and trust in God strengthened him.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Later on when .the</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Midianites attacked the Israelites, Gideon faced them with only a few men and defeated them in a battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">This is how the Israelites repented for their sins and received God's great favour once again.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">From this story we learn that God is loving and merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">He is displeased when we are disobedient, and a distance is created between God and us.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">But when we repent for our disobedience and sins, he forgives us and once again shows us his favour.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Now listen to another story.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Ajoy was a student and he lived in hostel.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Once upon a time, he along with some of his friends, stole some notes that Barun had prepared for his examinations and destroyed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Barun was a good boy and a very good student.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Could you guess what happened to Ajoy ?</sent>
				<sent id ="252">He got caught by the teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">He was punished and along with a few others thrown out of the hostel.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">So they could not appear in the examinations.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">But Barun did quite well in the examinations even though his notes had been destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">He felt sympathy for Ajoy and his other friends, for they could not even appear in the examinations.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">In the beginning of the following year, as soon as the hostel re-opened, Ajoy came to Barun and apologised to him saying, Please forgive me.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">It is not possible for me to stay at home and go to school.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Barun took Ajoy to the headmaster and pleased with him saying, Sir, please forgive them and allow them to come back to school.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">The headmaster was pleased to see how generous Barun was.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">He was also pleased to see Ajoy repent for his fault and so he excused him.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">He advised him not to do such a thing again and allowed him to come back to the hostel.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">This made everyone happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Disobedience and injustice destroy our relationship with God and with one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">But when we repent and ask for forgiveness our relationship is restored and experience great joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Tell the Lord with your whole heart, God, I love you above all things.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Lord, I want that you will be done in me.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Dear God, please do with me what you will, I am your obedient servant.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
