<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-christ-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.525</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">587</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">7745</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1965</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t116">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">He said to them, Come with me, and I will teach you to catch men.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">At once they left their nets and went with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">He went on and saw two other brothers, James and John, the sons of Zebedee.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">They were in their boat with their father Zebedee, getting their nets ready.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Jesus called them, and at once they left the boat with the net and their father, and went with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Then Jesus called Philip and his friend Bartholomew to be his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">On another day, Jesus called Mathew the tax collector saying, Come with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Mathew became his disciple and followed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">In this way Jesus gathered his disciples and began the process of entrusting to them his divine and human mission.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">When parents and guardians grow old, they entrust the responsibilities of their families to their own children.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">They hand over their responsibility to them before they die, so that the work begun by them may continue well.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In the same way, Jesus called his disciples and handed over to them the mission of saving mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Jesus Appoints Twelve Apostles In order to carry on his mission, Jesus chose and appointed twelve disciples who are called Apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The word `apostle means one who is sent.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Now listen to story of how Jesus chose them and laid the foundation of his Church.:</sent>
				<sent id ="16">One day Jesus went up a hill to pray and spent the whole night there praying to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">When day came, he came down and called his disciples to him and chose twelve of them, whom he named apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Accompanied by these twelve disciples, Jesus went around preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">He told them, you must go to the whole world and preach the message of salvation to all men.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Those who will believe and receive baptism will live according to my teaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Jesus gave his disciples authority to drive out demons, to heal the sick and work miracles.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">He even gave them power to raise the dead to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The other disciples of Jesus and many others who believed in him came from different places and gathered around him.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">They came to hear Jesus and to be healed of their diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Those who were troubled by evil spirits were also brought to him to be healed.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">A large crowd of people was there from all over Judea and from Jerusalem and from the coastal cities of Tyre and Sidon.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">All the people tried to touch him, for power was going out from him and healing them all.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">(Lk 6 : 1- 19).</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Jesus Sends Out the Disciples to Preach Jesus called the Disciples together and began to send them out to preach.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">He sent them out two by two, to go ahead of him to every town and place where he himself was about to go.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">As Jesus began to send out his disciples, he warned them saying, Go!</sent>
				<sent id ="32">I am sending you like lambs among ferocious animals and wolves.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">You must be as cautious as snakes and as gentle as doves.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Go and preach : The Kingdom of God is near!</sent>
				<sent id ="35">You have received without paying, so give without being paid.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Do not carry a beggar's bag for the journey or any money or shoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Don't waste any time on the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Whenever you go into a house, first say, Peace be with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Whenever you go into a town and are made welcome, eat what is set before you, heal the sick, comfort those who are sorrowful.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">In my name do good to those who are in need by the power given to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">If they do not welcome you, then move to somewhere else.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Then they will be deprived of the gift of peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">That village or town will not be able to see the signs of your good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The disciples went out to preach the Word of God as Jesus had directed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">They called people to conversion and advised them to come back to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">They experienced great joy and happiness as they went around preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">After a few days they came back rejoicing and praising God to share with Jesus what had happened as a result of their preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">They reported to Jesus what they had done and preached.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They said, Lord, even the demons obeyed us when we gave them a command in your name!</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Jesus answered them, Listen!</sent>
				<sent id ="51">But don't be glad because the evil spirits obey you; rather be glad because your names are written in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">An eternal reward is awaiting you in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Again he looked at his disciples and said, How fortunate you are to see the things you see!</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Now you truly realize how great was the authority that the disciples of Jesus enjoyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">For they were obedient, simple, humble, faithful, dependent on God and responsible.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">They prepared themselves as Jesus had wanted them to, and they were always conscious of their duties and were eager to fulfil them.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Each one of is a disciple chosen by Christ himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">To us also he says, Go, preach the Good News to all people.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Do good to those who are in need.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Are we attentive to this call?</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He has given us power to do great works.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Are we eager to use that power ?</sent>
				<sent id ="63">If we wish serve God and men.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">we have to accept Jesus as our Lord and Mas ter, and we have to believe in God's salvation and grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">We have to live in accordance with the teachings of Jesus,his example and we have to be inspired by his spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">We have to have faith, humility, simplicity, spirit of obedience, truthfulness, fidelity, fear of God, piety; devotion and love for people.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">We have to constantly practise these virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">In a spirit of humility, obedience, determination, hard-work, foresight and enthusiasm we have to prepare ourselves through studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We have to avoid being arrogant, disobedient and lazy.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Are we ready to do so?</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Do I have enough interest in religion, in work and in studies ?</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Or, do I just go around playing and wasting my time in gossiping and idleness ?</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Why has God created you ?</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Did he create you so that you could become learned, amass wealth and money, and live in luxury ?</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Or is it to live and work for God and men ?</sent>
				<sent id ="76">What are the spiritual and moral qualities you have in you?</sent>
				<sent id ="77">What are the bad qualities in you ?</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Are you ready to give these up and begin a new life from today ?</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Upto now how have you suffered on accound of being disobedient to your parents and teachers ?</sent>
				<sent id ="80">What do you intend to do now ?</sent>
				<sent id ="81">What would you resolve to do ?</sent>
				<sent id ="82">How interested are you in religious practices and higher education ?</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Do have any desire to do something good for the society and the country ?</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Or, are you just thinking of going abroad and earn big money after you get your education ?</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Are you polite and courteous in your dealings with others, or are you arrogant, rude and impolite ?</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Who are your friends ?</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Are they well- behaved and well-mannered ?</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Do they give you good advice, or do they lead you astray ?</sent>
				<sent id ="89">I will welcome what builds me up and reject what is bad for me.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">I will reflect on God's will for me and share it freely with my parents, teachers and the parish priest.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">I will be attentive in my studies and take good care of my body and soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Without virtue, no one can be successful or reach the goal in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Such a person is not entrusted with any responsibility and he does not receive any honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Happiness disappears from his life and he finds only misery as his companion.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Earthly success depends on special qualities, such as knowledge, experience, foresight, industriousness, courage, patience, humility, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">If a farmer wishes to reap a good harvest, he has to work hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Moreover he has to have some experience and skill.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">He was to know when the right season for planting is.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">A good farmer will procure good seed and sow it at the right time and apply fertilizer in due time.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">He has to keep watch so that the insects do not attack the crop, and if necessary use insecticide.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Isn't it so ?</sent>
				<sent id ="102">A soldier has to parade regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">He has to be healthy, abide by rules of the army and learn the art of war.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">One who rules a country has to know how to administer and take care of the citizens.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">A teacher has to have knowledge, learn the method of teaching, have patience, affection, sense of time and discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Only an expert and courageous boatman can steer the boat to its destination when there is a storm.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The story of the famous sailors, Columbus and Vasco da Gama, inspires us.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">In the same way, a good disciple of Jesus or a good Christian must possess some spiritual, moral and human qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The disciples of Christ have to fulfil the responsibilities given to them by Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">This is certainly not an easy task.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">That is why Jesus said, For my sake you will be brought to trial.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">I am sending you out just like sheep to a pack of wolves.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">What is faith?</sent>
				<sent id ="114">To have faith is to be sure of the things we hope for, to be certain of the things we cannot see.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Faith, hope and charity-these are theological virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">It is faith that strengthens our hope for the eternal life, and confirms and enriches our love for God and men.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">To believe in One God and to worship him alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">There are three persons in One God : Father, Son and Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">God the Son became Incarnated for us, he died on the Cross and rose on the third day.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Every Christian has to believe in One God and his son Jesus Christ who died, rose and ascended into heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">We have to firmly believe that Christ is the Son of God, he is the Saviour of mankind, and we have to depend on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">A disciple has to love him, believe in him and hope for the eternal life through him.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">For there is no other way to enter into eternal life except Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Jesus himself said, I am the way, the truth, and the life.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">No one can enter into eternal life except by me.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">In the Bible it is written : One day Jesus asked his disciples, Who do people say the son of Man is ?</sent>
				<sent id ="127">They answered, Some say John the Baptist, others as Elijah, while others say Jeremiah or some other prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Then Jesus asked, What about you?</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Who do you say I am ?</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Simon Peter answered, Your are the Messiah, the son of the living God.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Jesus said, Good for you, Simon.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">For this truth did not come to you form any human being, but it was given to you directly by my Father in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">And so I tell you.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">(Mt.16 :13-19; Mk. 8: 27-30).</sent>
				<sent id ="135">How happy are those who have no doubts about me.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Lord Jesus, strengthen my faith in God the Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Help me to remain firm and withstand the allurements of the world and the enticements of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Lord Jesus, be with me and guide me.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">There is no salvation without faith and good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">`Fidelity is another special quality of a true disciple of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">It is the duty of a Christian to believe in Christ and to do his work faithfully and obey his commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Children who obey their parents and the respected elders never go astray.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">They can overcome all dangers in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">A faithful son is the pride of his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">He brings honour and glory to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">A faithful servant is entrusted with many responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The sense of responsibility of a faithful servant brings much comfort and joy to his master.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">In the same way, God wants that his disciples always remain faithful and do their duties well.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In this way, both the master and the servant are happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">An unfaithful servant is driven away and punished by his master.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Similarly, on the Day of the Last Judgement Jesus will say to those who are unfaithful, Away from me, you that are under God's curse!</sent>
				<sent id ="152">I do not know you.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Away to the eternal fire which has been prepared for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">But to those who were faithful he will say, Come, you that are blessed by my Father !</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Come and possess the kingdom which has been prepared for you ever since the creation of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">You must have heard about the parable of `the faithful and the unfaithful servant in the Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">A man who was about to go on a journey called his servants and put them in charge of his property.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">He gave a certain amount of money to each one according to his ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">He wanted them to invest the money in business and earn a profit.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Those who made the investment and earned profit, the master called them good and faithful servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">He said, Well done, you good and faithful servant!</sent>
				<sent id ="162">You have been faithful in managing small amounts, so I will put you in charge of large amounts.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Come on in and shore my happiness!.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The servant who had received one talent, did not invest it.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Take this useless servant and throw him outside in the darkness; there he will cry and grind his teeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Moreover, he has to have love for God, faith and hope in him and piety and practice of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">What are the good qualities you have received from God ?</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Are you faithfully making good use of those qualities ?</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Do you pay attention to your studies, practice religion and attend the religious services ?</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Do you do well the duties assigned to you by your teachers and pastors ?</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Are you faithful in doing the duties assigned to you by your parents at home?</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Do you try to develop your God-given knowledge, intelligence, skill, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Or do you, like that useless servant, spend time in idleness ?</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Lord, help me to overcome my infidelity and laziness.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Help me to be honest and faithful in developing the talents you have given me.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Help me to seek perfection in my spiritual and moral life by faithfully doing my duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">This I pray in the name of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">God is full of love; he is infinitely merciful; he loves sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He forgives the sins of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">He calls the lost sheep to give up sins and come back to the way of justice, and he gives his inspiration and help.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Out of love for man he became Man and died on the Cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He gives hope to those who are on the verge of despair.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">He heals the sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">He shows the way to those who are confused.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">He said, Come to me, all of you who are tired from carrying heavy loads, and I will give you rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">It is in God's nature to love.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He is the source and model of pure love.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">God wants that we love him and other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">No one should be excluded form our love, whatever their race, religion or caste may be.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Only then there will be peace, happiness, joy and prosperity on this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Without love there can be no happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It is impossible to reach the Ultimate goal of life i.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">e., God and his Kingdom, without love.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">One day a Scribe, wanting to test Jesus, asked him, Teacher, what must I do to receive eternal life?</sent>
				<sent id ="195">What is your greatest commandment to us?</sent>
				<sent id ="196">That is why he asked again, Who is my neighbour?</sent>
				<sent id ="197">In answer Jesus told the parable of the Good Samaritan: The robbers attacked him, stripped him, and beat him up, leaving him half dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">A Jewish priest saw him in this condition, by he walked on by, on the other side.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">In the same way a Levite also walked away on the other side.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">They felt no compassion towards the wounded man.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He went over to him and carefully bandaged his wounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Then he put the man on his own horse and took him to an inn.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">He paid some money to the innkeeper and told him that he would come again on this way back.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">If the expenses are more than what he already paid, he would pay the rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">But he asked him to take good care of the man.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">After telling the story Jesus asked the teacher of the Law.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">In your opinion, which one of these three acted like a neighbour towards the man attacked by the robbers?</sent>
				<sent id ="208">He replied, The one who was kind to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Then Jesus said, ``You go, then, and do the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">All men and women have been created by God and so they are all our neighbours, our brothers and sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Hence we should extend our services to people who are in danger, who are needy, helpless and are oppressed without distinguishing their race or religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">This is the ideal Christ has taught us.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">His love is universal It is not confined within any boundaries of religion place, time or race.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">There is something more: True love is not a matter of mere words or talk.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Love has to be expressed concretely in words, work, behaviour and attitude in everyday life.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It is an ideal rule of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">True love has some characteristics.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">I may have the gift of inspired preaching;</sent>
				<sent id ="219">I may have all knowledge and understand all secrets;</sent>
				<sent id ="220">I may have all the faith needed to move mountains- but if I have no love, I am nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Love is patient and kind;</sent>
				<sent id ="222">it is not jealous or conceited or proud;</sent>
				<sent id ="223">love is not ill-mannered or selfish or irritable;</sent>
				<sent id ="224">love does no keep a record of wrongs;</sent>
				<sent id ="225">love is not happy with evil, but is happy with the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Love never gives up; and its faith, hope and patience never fail.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Love is eternal everything else will pass away.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Faith, hope and love-these three remain; and the greatest of these is love.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">All the works and examples of Jesus teach this to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">He has told us, Love one another, as I have loved you.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Gratitude also is a spiritual and moral quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">An ungrateful person loses the tenderness and humility of his heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">An ungrateful person often treads the path of injustice and commits sins of anger, envy, pride and revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">To commit sins and to walk in sin and injustice mean ingratitude towards God and it is hateful.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">God is the Creator of heaven and earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">He became Man out of love for men; he died on the Cross to save mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">He created this earth and everything in it: the sun and the moon; the stars and the planets.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">He has, given us life, he has given us, our parents and our relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">He sustains and nourishes us with animals, birds, plants and tress, light, air and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">He keeps everything alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">For this reason man should praise, adore and thank God.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The heart of an ungrateful person is filled with the sins of pride, arrogance and slander.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">He depends on his own power and wealth which finally lead him to his downfall.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">We have to express our gratitude to them as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">How can those who don't show gratitude to men, show gratitude to God ?</sent>
				<sent id ="246">By showing our gratitude to men in practical life, we develop a habit of showing gratitude to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">This causes our human nature, our character and our thinking shine with beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">In the Bible it is written : One day as Jesus made his way to Jerusalem, he went along the border between Samaria and Galilee.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">He was going into a village when he was met by ten men suffering from a dreaded skin-disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">They stood at a distance and shouted, Jesus!</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Take pity on us.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Jesus was moved with pity and he said to them, Go and let the priests examine you.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">On the way they were made clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">No trace of skin-disease remained on their bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">But only one of them came back praising God in a loud voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">He threw himself to the ground at Jesus feet and thanked him.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The man was a Samaritan.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">The Samaritans were treated by the Jews and the Levites and untouchable and low caste.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Jesus was disappointed and said, There were ten men who were healed; where are the other nine ?</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Why is this foreigner the only one who came back to give thanks to God ?</sent>
				<sent id ="261">How many times during the day do we thank God the Giver of life for his manifold graces and blessings ?</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Have I said even once today: Lord I thank you for your mercy and blessings ?</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Do we express our gratitude to our parents, relatives, elders and friends for their help and cooperation, kindness and hard work ?</sent>
				<sent id ="264">If we have not build up this habit already, let us begin changing our attitude today:</sent>
				<sent id ="265">From now on we will show our gratitude to God and to our fellowmen for their help.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">With tenderness and humility we will thank them.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">God is our forgiving Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">He forgives us all our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">No matter how serious our sins are, if we are truly repentant and humbly ask for forgiveness, God forgives us.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">God does not want that even the least of his children be lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Jesus has the authority to forgive our sins, no matter how serious they are.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">For he is God.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">God also wants that we ask for forgiveness from one another and we are reconciled to one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">And in this way we build up our relationship with the Father and the son.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Jesus is both God and Man.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">By his teaching and example he has shown us how we should love and forgive one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">He said, Love and forgive one another just as I have loved and forgiven you.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Jesus healed man's bodily illness, drove out demons and restored peace of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">But he did a far greater work than these, viz., he forgave man's sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">He has taught us how obtain forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">It is by means of forgiveness that we find eternal salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">It is for this reason that Jesus is our Saviour and our God who forgives.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">In the sight of God all of us are sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Every human person is in need of asking and granting forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">When we are forgiven, we are reconciled with Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">If we say we have no sins in us, we deceive ourselves, and there is no truth in us.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">But if we are repentant and we confess our sins to God, he will forgive us our sins and purify us from all our wrongdoing.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">He is trustworthy, he will always keep his promises.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">If anyone does sin, we have someone who pleads with the Father on our behalfJesus Christ, the righteous one.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Christ himself is the means by which our sins are forgiven, and not our sins only, but also the sins of everyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">On the Cross Jesus prayed, Forgive them, Father!</sent>
				<sent id ="292">They don't know what they are doing.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Jesus prayed to the Father for those who had unjustly crucified him and he forgave them.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">One of the criminals who were crucified with him repented and said, Remember me, Jesus, when you come as King!</sent>
				<sent id ="295">And Jesus said to him, I promise you that today you will be in Paradise with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">When Jesus said to the paralysed man, Courage, my son!</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Your sins are forgiven., the teachers of the Law said to themselves, This man is speaking blasphemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">But Jesus, perceiving what they were thinking, said, I will prove to you that the son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">So he said to the paralysed man, Get up, pick up your bed, and go home.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The man got up at once and went home.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Remember that woman who was a public sinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">She sat at Jesus feet repentant.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">She was weeping and wetting feet with her tears.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Then she dried his feet with her hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">She poured the perfume made of pure nard she had brought in a beautiful white crystal bottle on Jesus, two feet and kissed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">She firmly resolved up the sinful life she had been living in that city and begin a new life.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Jesus knew she was repentant, and so he said to her, Your sins are forgiven.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Your faith has saved you; go in peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">When the Pharisee who had invited Jesus and all the others present there saw this, questioned in their mind what kind of behavior that was.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">The woman, a public sinner, was touching him and he said nothing ?</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Moreover, he said, Go, your sins are forgiven ?</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Who is this man who even forgives sins ?</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Now you understand what authority Jesus had.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Therefore, if we commit sins, we should not be afraid and despair.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">We only have to hate our sins, repent and give up sinning, and humbly surrender to Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Jesus has given was a new commandment: Love one another and forgive one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Forgiveness is necessary for reconciliation.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">God does not forgive someone who does not forgive others.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">In the Lord's Prayer, Jesus has taught us to say : Forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">This shows that we have to be ready to forgive others if we want to be forgiven by God ours sins and offences.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Jesus said, If you forgive others the wrongs they have done to you, your Father in heaven will also forgive you.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">But if you do not forgive others, then your Father will not forgive the wrongs you have done.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Concerning forgiveness, Jesus forbade us to say: I can never do it.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Seven times ?</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Jesus answered, No, not seven times, but seventy times seven.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Otherwise your punishment will be terrible.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">With the help of many such parables Jesus taught us about forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">For instance, his advice : If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, let him slap your left cheek too.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">The story of the Prodigal son also teaches us about forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Do you remember ?</sent>
				<sent id ="331">In the previous lesson you learned about forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">It was briefly mentioned there that in order to be forgiven, one has to be truly repentant.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">In the same way, we have to be sincerely sorry for our sins and then ask Jesus for forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">It is not enough just to say with my mouth that I want to be forgiven.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">I need to be truly repentant.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">When we examine our conscience, we think deeply and recall all our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">I do not hide anything and I am not hesitant or afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">This examination of conscience helps us to realize the seriousness of every sin and feel its pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Then we become sorry for our sins and feel compunction.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Just as gold is not purified without being tested by fire, so our hearts cannot be cleansed without repentance.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">In repenting we realize that we have offended God who is infinitely great.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Our offences not only cause pain to God, but also makes us realize that we have become guilty of crucifying him.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Our heart, soul and conscience have become contaminated.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">God is no longer present in our soul, instead Satan occupies his place.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">We become alienated from God and his commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">I am bound to go to hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Such deep thoughts produces compunction and makes me bow my head towards God.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">In true repentance the fear of hell does not come first, but rather sorrow for having offended God.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Then comes resolution: I will not commit sin any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">At the same time I must confess my sins and ask God for forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">Through penance and confession, through professing faith in God and surrendering ourselves to him, our filial and loving relationship with God is restored.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Our soul once again becomes the abode of God; he comes to live in our hearts, Our soul becomes pure and holy.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">The realization that by her small and serious sins she had offended God brought Mary Magdalene to Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Sorrow for her sins caused her to shed tears with which she washed the feet of Jesus and wiped them with her hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Out of love for Jesus, she poured the perfume on his feet, and then bent down and kissed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">In the same way, the Prodigal son returned to his father when he realized his mistake.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">He said, Father, I have sinned against God and against you.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">I am no longer fit to be called your son; treat me as one of your hired workers.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">From these two examples we can learn about repentance for sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Do 1 repent sincerely when I commit sins?</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Do I feel pain in my heart for having offended God? Do I promise to God to give up sins and.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">return to the right path? Have I asked for forgiveness when I offended my parents, teachers and other respected elders and became disobedient?</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Have I asked for forgiveness when I offended my companions?</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Is my relationship with them cordial, or is it only superficial?</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Merciful God, I have offended you by my sins; please forgive me.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Help me not to sin any more.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Help me to avoid sins and live according to your teaching and commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">This I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Our Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">I will learn the Act of Contrition and other penitential prayers by heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">If I commit any sins, in small or serious matters, I will ask for God's forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">I will show respect to all people and I will be tolerant.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">I will shun the path of sin and evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">I will be kind to my friends, younger brothers and sisters, and classmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">I will try to understand that God is just and he is my supremely best friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">I will deepen our relationship with God.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Obedience to God is a Christian virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">The exercise and development of this virtue is essential for growth in spiritual life.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">God is our Creator, our Father, our Friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">He is Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">His love for us is infinite and he has shown us the way to salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Therefore, obedience to him is essential for attaining perfection in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Adam and Eve were not obedient to God, hence they fell into sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">There are many such examples in the Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Those who are not obedient to God are bound to fall into sin and stumble in darkness.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">We find supreme obedience in the life of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">He fulfilled the will of God fully in his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Father, not as I want, but your will be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">While breathing his last on the Cross he said, Father, into your hands I commend my spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">What a unique expression of obedience!</sent>
				<sent id ="390">It is because he was so completely obedient to God the Father that he taught us a wonderful prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">We call it the Lord's Prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">In this earthly life Jesus told us to train ourselves well in obedience to our parents and respected elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">If we do so, we not only become happy and make progress, but we also grow spiritually.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">The fourth of the Ten Commandments says: Honour your father and mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">It is the duty of a soldier to obey the General.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">It is the duty of the citizens to obey the rulers.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">To be obedient in practice means to submit.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">We obey by observing the commandments, directions, teachings and rules:</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Those who do not observe them, make their own life and that of others unhappy.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">create chaos and confusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">Recall how the evil-minded Pharisees tried to trap Jesus by asking him a question :</sent>
				<sent id ="402">Teacher, we know that you are true, and teach the way of God truthfully, and care for man.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Tell us, then, what you think.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?</sent>
				<sent id ="405">But Jesus, aware of their malice, said, Why to put me to the test, you hypocrites?</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">When they heard it, they marvelled; and they left him and went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">There is another way of being obedient.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">And that is honesty and fidelity.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">One who is not obedient is dishonest and unfaithful.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">He becomes unruly and arrogant.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">And the consequences of this is terrible, his life gets ruined.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">So you see what Christian obedience means what its essential characteristics are.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">We have to practise these virtues if we wish to be a true disciple of Christ and want to go to heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life; no one receive eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">He also said, I am the vine, and you are the branches.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">You cannot bear fruit unless you remain in me.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">To remain in him means to serve the Lord God alone and to live according to his teaching and camanandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Am I obedient to God ?</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Do I observe the Ten Commandments with faith and love?</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Am I obedient to my parents, teachers and respected elders ?</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Do I follow their orders and directions?</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Do I maintain discipline in school and in the society?</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Do I have bad habits and attitudes of disobedience, arrogance, gossiping, ruthlessness, addictions, unruly behaviour?</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Am I resolved to overcome these?</sent>
				<sent id ="426">I will wholeheartedly obey God, love him and do his will.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">I will give up all my bad habits, arrogance and misbehaviour:</sent>
				<sent id ="428">I will live a simple and cheerful life like a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Lord, be with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">Help me to keep my resolutions.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Help me to overcome all my vices and bad habits.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Increase my spirit of obedience, faith, hope and love.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Lord, I entrust myself to you and I ask you to be always merciful and gracious to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Help me to remain in you.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Humility is essential for growth and success in Christian life.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Without humility it is impossible to live according to the teachings of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">A humble person lives in accordance with the will of God and observes his commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">He is patient and persevering.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">He is considerate and just, he avoids evil paths.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">He is simple like a child and innocent like a lamb.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Through his example and teachings Jesus has taught us the way of humility, forgiveness and love.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">The opposite of humility is pride, arrogance and anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">These are the causes of conflicts, spirit of revenge, greed and indiscipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">A person who is humble receives honour, enjoys peace and gradually attains great success.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">He avoids envy, indecent actions and greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">A humble person does not boast.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Humility or meekness is a fruit of the Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">It is a source of joy and it helps develop many other spiritual and moral virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Jesus said, Happy are those who are humble; they will receive what God has promised.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Humility does not mean lack of wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Humility means gentleness, meekness and dependence on God.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">The supreme example of humility is Jesus, who was obedient to God even to the death on the Cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">And now he is seated at the right hand of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">I, your Lord and Teachers, have just washed your feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">You, then, should wash one another's feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">I have set an example for you, so that you will do just what I have done for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">I am telling you the truth : no slave is greater than his master, and no messenger is greater than the one who sent him.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Now that you know this truth, how happy you will be if you put it into practice!.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">What a wonderful lesson of humility Jesus has taught us.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">In another place he says, The son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">If one of you wants to be great, he must be the servant of the rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Jesus told another beautiful story which teaches about humility.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Once there were two men who went up to the Temple to pray : one was a Pharisee, the other a tax collector.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">The Pharisee stood apart by himself and prayed, Cop thank you, God, that I am not greedy, dishonest, or an adulterer, like everybody else.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">I thank you that I am not like that tax collector over there.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">I fast two days a week, and I give the tenth of all my income.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">Jesus then said, I tell you; the tax collector, and not the Pharisee, was in the right with God when he went home.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">For everyone who makes himself great will be humbled, and everyone who humbles himself will be made great.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">We may often think that we are the greatest because we are the most educated, skilled and experienced.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">But that is not true.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">There is a verse written by a poet : Not the one who calls himself great, But he is great whom others call great.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Humility finds expression in one's deeds, words and behaviours.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">A humble person is obedient to his parents and respected elders;</sent>
				<sent id ="474">he is simple and cheerful: He is patient, persevering, faithful and dependent on God.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Jesus was exactly that.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">Therefore he could say, Father, not what I want, but your will be done.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Mary and Joseph are models of humility.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">We know from the Scriptures that they did what God wanted them to, and they obeyed him in everything without hesitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">Saint Joseph Accepted God's, will expressed to him through an angel.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">In humility he was obedient to God, and he took care of Mary and Jesus all his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">In the lives of the Saints too we see signs and examples of these virtues : humility, fidelity, obedience, submission and patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">Happy are those who are humble; they will receive what God has promised.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">A humble person is simple, obedient and faithful: A humble person never despairs, he is always cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">A humble person does not find fault with others, he is not proud, he does not take revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">A humble person is loved by all, he endures all, things and does good to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Let Us Pray Lord, make me humble, honest and pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">Teach me to be simple so that in all things I may fulfill your will.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">Use me as an ordinary servant so that by serving all people I may glorify you.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">I ask you this through Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, Amen.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">Suffering and Mortification Success and maturity in the Christian life cannot be attained without suffering and mortification.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">Suffering, persecution and insults are unavoidable in the life of a Christian.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">Through suffering and mortification we become true and mature disciples of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">From the lives of saints and great man it appears that not through seeking pleasures, but through renunciation, we attain the proximity of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">Priests, Brothers, Sisters and other religious and saintly persons accept these renunciation and practices as vows.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">They renounce worldly pleasures and luxuries in order to seek perfection and to devote themselves to the service of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Many even had to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">Therefore, they went to God in heaven and now enjoy eternal bliss.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">The teachings and the examples of saints and great men help us to make our journey to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">For truth and ideals never become outdated.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Their suffering and practice of mortification serve us as ideals for all times and for all people.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">They are ever new and a source of inspiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">Hence, persecution, renunciation and mortifications are essential for the spiritual growth of the servants of the Church.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">No one can go to God without following this path.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">Suffering and mortification are a must for a servant of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">By being persecuted, and by dying on the Cross, Jesus has taught us this lesson.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">In the present condition of the world where there is so much injustice, oppression, exploitation and conflicts, there is a greater need for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">This need will be there, till the end of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">For the main task of the Church is to preach the Word, where persecution is bound to come and sufferings and mortifications cannot be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">He will be put to death, but three days later he will rise to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">Jesus spoke these words loudly and clearly.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">So Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">But Jusus turned round, looked at his disciples and rebuked Peter.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">Get away from me, Satan, he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">Your thoughts don't come from God but from-man!</sent>
				<sent id ="515">Then Jesus called the crowd and his disciples to him and said.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">If anyone wants to come with me, he must forget self, carry his cross, and follow me.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">For whoever wants to save his own life will lose it; but whoever loses his life for me and for the gospel will save it.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">Does a person gain anything if he wins the whole world but loses his life ?</sent>
				<sent id ="519">Of course not!</sent>
				<sent id ="520">If a person is ashamed of me and my teaching in this.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">Therefore, the Church has to go forward and work like the Suffering Servant in the midst of insults, indifference and persecution.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">For the Lord Jesus Christ has entrusted the task of preaching the Word of God and service for the people to the believers.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">So there is no room for fear or hesitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">Jesus too told us, Do not be afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">I -am with you till the end of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">It is the duty of the Christians as individuals and as a Church to preach the Word of God and to serve mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">To neglect this duty is to disobey Christ and it is an offence against humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">While preaching the Gospel and serving mankind, the Christians are bound to face difficulties, insults, indifference and persecution.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">And yet they have to move forward accepting suffering and mortification.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">We must give to God what belongs to God and give to the State what belongs to the State.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">To serve mankind is the duty of a good citizen and it is commitment of obedience.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">We must not be afraid or hesitate to do good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">For God is always with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">The Holy Spirit will tell us what and when we have to say or do.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">Dear Lord Jesus, you suffered all your life and died on the Cross for mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">Purify me and bless me so that I can trust in you and carry my own cross.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Your mercy and help are a source of strength, courage and wisdom for me.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Be with me and guide me.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">I ask you this in your holy name.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">Jesus Sermon on the Mount or the Beatitudes is the New Law given by God for the Salvation of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">Through this Sermon Jesus has shown us a new way of entering into the Kingdom of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">In this Sermon Jesus gives a new direction for man's eternal salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">Jesus has left behind this Word for his disciples and for the whole human race.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">He wants that all live according to this Word and in this way attain salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">All through the ages the Church has been preaching these Beatitudes to people who are hoping for salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">The practice of the Beatitudes help us to grow spiritually and to make progress on our way to attaining eternal life.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">Our parents, teachers and the respected elders also wish the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">Jesus went around from town to town, from village to village, preaching in the Synagogues and healing those who were sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">Large crowds followed him from Galilee and the Ten Towns, from Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">Judea, and the land on the other side of the Jordan.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">Teaching of Jesus on the Hill Jesus saw the crowds and went up a hill, where he sat down.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">His disciples gathered round him, and he began to teach them.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">Happy are you when people insult you and persecute you and tell all kinds of evil lies against you because you are my followers.</sent>
				<sent id ="554">Be happy and glad, for a great reward is kept for you in heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">This is how the prophets who lived before you were persecuted.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">And in this way they become examples like Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">He said : You are salt for all mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">But if salt loses its saltiness, there is no way to make it salty again.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">It has become worthless, so it is thrown out and people trample on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">You are like light for the whole world.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">A city built on a hill cannot be hidden.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">Good works done for others brings great joy and satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">By calling them Happy, Jesus wanted to say that they are especially favored by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">those who are, humble, simple and honest; those, who have overcome greed;</sent>
				<sent id ="565">Jesus says in his sermon that these will enter into the Kingdom of heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">No one can stop the onward march of the disciples of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">In our society and country today there is so much injustice, theft, robbery, extortion, bribe-taking fights, conflicts and greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">These are sinful.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">As a result, there is much unrest, and misery in our families, in our society and in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">Don't you think these are hurting our spiritual life?</sent>
				<sent id ="571">Aren't these making us unworthy of entering into the Kingdom of God or heaven ?</sent>
				<sent id ="572">Aren't these injustices cause of suffering and misery in people's lives ?</sent>
				<sent id ="573">How much good have we been able to do to people, to our society and to our country ?</sent>
				<sent id ="574">What about me ?</sent>
				<sent id ="575">What am, I doing?</sent>
				<sent id ="576">Do people know me to be a good person or a bad person ?</sent>
				<sent id ="577">Do they love me and respect me ?</sent>
				<sent id ="578">Is my, earthly and spiritual life pleasing to God ?</sent>
				<sent id ="579">Is my nature, my character and behavior humble, polite and pleasing to others ?</sent>
				<sent id ="580">Or, am I causing suffering to my parents and respected elders and hurting my spiritual life by my arrogance, impoliteness and disobedience?</sent>
				<sent id ="581">I will be a humble, polite, simple and honest person.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">I will shun the ways of disobedience, arrogance and indiscipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">I will be holy and pure by exercising piety and practicing religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">I will avoid sins and evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="585">I will try my best to do good to people; I will avoid all harmful thoughts and actions.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">I will trust in God; I, will sing his glory and praise.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">I will reject the temptations of Satan and bad advice of men.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
