<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-christ-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.637</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">234</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3149</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1017</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t120">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">They are given red-carpet receptions.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">They are given welcome by waving small flags, colourful ribbons, by being presented bouquet of flowers and by decorating the Gate or Entrance.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">By giving them such honour, a country expresses its goodwill.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">It is a recognition of the guest's dignity and status.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The people of Jerusalem also welcomed our Lord Jesus Christ in the same way.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">But unlike what is done for the State Guests today, there was no red carpet or bouquet of flowers, and no Gate was decorated.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">There was no hoisting of the national flag or waving of colourful ribbons.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Jesus was born as a poor man in a stable in Bethlehem.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">And he revealed himself as a humble and meek person.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">And so he entered Jerusalem riding on a donkey.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">And the people welcomed him by spreading their cloaks and branches from the trees on the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">In this lesson we will learn about this in detail.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Jesus had been working many miracles among the people, and the news had spread far and wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Many used to gathered around him to hear him.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">When Jesus was leaving Jericho, a large crowd was following.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">On the way Jesus cured two blind men by touching their eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">They also followed Jesus to Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">As Jesus, the Prince of Peace, with a large crowd following him, approached Jerusalem, they came to Bethphage at the Mount of Olives.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">There Jesus sent two of his disciples on ahead with these instructions:</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Untie them and bring them to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">And if anyone says anything, tell him, The Master needs them; and then he will let them go at once.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">So the disciples went and found the colt tied up, just as Jesus had told them.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">As they were untying it, some of the bystanders stopped-them.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">But when they were told that Jesus needed it, they let it go.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">They brought the donkey and the colt to Jesus and spread their cloaks on the colt.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Jesus got on it and went towards Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">When the people of Jerusalem heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, they came forward and spread their cloacks on the-road to welcome him.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Some of them cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The crowds walking in front of Jesus and those walking behind him began to shout in joy, Praise to David's son !</sent>
				<sent id ="30">God bless him who comes in the name of the Lord !</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Praise to God!</sent>
				<sent id ="32">When Jesus entered Jerusalem, the whole city was thrown into an uproar.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The people asked, Who is he ?</sent>
				<sent id ="34">To whom are they showing such great honour?</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Those who knew him, they all gave testimony saying, This is the prophet Jesus, from Nazareth in Galilee.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Some of the Pharisees felt jealous and asked Jesus to tell them to be silent.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">In answer Jesus said, I tell you that if they keep quiet, the stones themselves will start shouting.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The time will come when your enemies will destroy you.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Not a single stone will leave in its place, because you did not recognize the time when God came to save you!</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Then Jesus went into the Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">A church or a temple is a place of worship and prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">But the merchants were doing business in the Temple, buying and selling their goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Jesus was very sad to see this and he was angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">For they were desecrating the holy Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">But you have turned it into a hideout for thieves.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Every day Jesus taught in the Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Many people who were lame and blind, came to Jesus in the Temple to be healed.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Jesus cured them all.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They began to conspire against Jesus in order to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Jesus went to Bethany to spend the night there.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Our Lord Jesus Christ lived in the family for thirty years and he was obedient to his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">His public life was only for three years.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">He was not accorded a royal welcome like an earthly king or a President or a Prime Minister.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">But the people recognized him as King from their hearts.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">He entered Jerusalem in a humble way, riding on a donkey, as the Prince of Peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">His Kingdom will be established in humility and love.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Therefore, he rode on an ordinary animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Instead of a red carpet, the people spread out their cloaks and some branches from the trees on the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">We also see Jesus getting angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">This anger can be explained by saying that Jesus wanted to respect the sacredness of the Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Moreover, it is a matter of opposing injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The priests and the teachers of the Law felt offended by Jesus behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">For it was their responsibility to take care of the Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">No one could have carried on any business there without their permission.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">But Jesus showed by his behaviour how just and conscientious he was.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">So he wept thinking of the future of the Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Our Lord Jesus Christ is the model of humility, love and justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Even though he is the King of kings, he accepted a simple public welcome.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He could have told his disciples to make some other arrangements, but he didn't.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Rather he preferred to ride on the colt of a donkey.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">He did not choose a strong horse or a camel or an elephant to ride on.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The people showed him their respects by spreading branches of trees and their cloaks on the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">This is a clear proof of Jesus, humility and meekness.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">We observe this occasion even today, on Palm Sunday during the Season of Lent.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">On that day, date- branches are brought into the church and blessed.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">We proclaim Jesus as our King.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">We must accept Christ as the shining example of humility, love and justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Christ himself has taught thsis to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">No mastter how high our position in society is, we should be humble.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">We have to love all people irrespective of their caste and creed.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Most of all, we have to shun the path of injustice and follow the path of justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">By driving out the merchants from the Temple and over throwing their merchandise Jesus opposed injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">A house of prayer is a holy place.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">It is not a place for any business.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">If we make it to be so, then we desecrate it.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">We should always remember this when we go to church, realizing that Christ is present there.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">He is the King of heaven and earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">We show great respect in many ways to our earthly kings or Presidents or Prime Ministers.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">How much more should be our respect for Christ who is the King of kings.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">We must show respect to someone who deserves our respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">We must honour our respected elders, parents, teachers and religious leaders.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">We must avoid evil, oppose injustice and practice justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">We must show honour to great personalities and teach our young people to do the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">All of us are familiar with the word supper.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">It is a meal where there is arrangements for a variety of foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Such a meal is organized on the occasion of certain feasts or events.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">For instance, on Christmas, Easter, Eid, Puja, wedding day or when there is a great achievement, a meal is organized.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Also, before our near relatives go away to a foreign country for a long time, we organize a meal in their honour.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Christmas, Easter, Eid, Puja, weddings are joyful occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">A farewell is normally painful, and yet a meal on this occasion expresses joy and good wishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">A meal is organized on such occasions to invite the relatives to participate in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">But a good meal requires a good preparation, so that everything goes well.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The place where the meal is organized is also cleaned up and decorated.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">A menu is prepared for the meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Much care is taken so that there is enough for the number of invited guests.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">All the arrangements are made with great care so that the celebrations go well.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Our Lord Jesus Christ arranged for such a farewell meal with his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">In this lesson we will learn about this meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">In the previous lesson you learned something about the Passover meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">`Passover means passing over or deliverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Passover is celebrated in memory of the day on which God delivered his people, the Israelites, from the bondage of Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The Israelites were commanded to celebrate this festival from generation to generation.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Jesus Christ arranged to celebrate-this meal with his disciples before his death.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Through this meal was inaugurated the, new Passover to save mankind from the bondage of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Preparation for the Passover Meal The Day of the Passover is called the Day of Unleavened Bread.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">It is the day on which the paschal lamb was sacrificed.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The Apostles asked Jesus where they should arrange this meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Jesus sent Peter and John to make the arrangements for the meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Then he will show you a large upstairs room, prepared and furnished, where you will get everything ready for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The disciples-left, went to the city, and found everything just as Jesus had told them, and they prepared the Passover meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">According to our local customs, we procure meat, pillau, fish, sweetmeats, curds, etc. for a good meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">But for the Jews, their main dish were bread and meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">And Jesus himself had instructed his disciples to prepare this meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The disciples prepared this meal with roasted lamb, bread baked without yeast and bitter herbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">When it was evening, Jesus came with the twelve disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">While they were at table eating;</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Jesus said, I tell you that one of you will betray me-one who is eating with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The disciples were upset and began to ask him, one after the other, Surely you don't mean me.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Jesus answered, It will be one of you twelve, one who dips his bread in the dish with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The Son of Man will die as he Scriptures say he will; but how terrible for that man who betrays the Son of Man!</sent>
				<sent id ="131">It would have been better for that man if he had never been born!</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Then the disciples completed the Passover meal before the death of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">There are certain feasts that we observe which was commanded by God himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It was God who delivered the Israelites from the oppression of the Egyptians.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">So he commanded them to observe the Passover Feast to commemorate that event.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Our Lord Jesus Christ kept that Feast with his disciples even though he is the Son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">This expressed his obedience to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">We too have to obey the commandments and the Laws of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">We too observe this Passover Feast on Good Friday in remembrance of Jesus's suffering and death on the Cross for our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">He has delivered us from the bondage of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Through this meal Jesus Christ expressed his love for us.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">We-too express our love for our neighbours and relatives by inviting them to meals on special occasions.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">In this way we grow in our mutual relationship-a growth in the spirit of love, affection, fellow- feeling, compassion and cooperation.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">The supper that Jesus had with his disciples before his death is the New Passover or the meal of salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Christ has taught us to be obedient to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Through this meal Jesus showed his authentic love for his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">In the same way, we too have to love all people- friends or enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">We have to treat our enemies as friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In order to avoid such happenings in our family and in the society, we have to learn to be patient, kind and friendly.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Jesus did this with his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">We must obey God's orders and commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">We have to observe rules and regulations in our family, in the society, in school, college and in the state.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">This will help us to become good persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Jesus knew that one of his disciples was going to betray him, yet he was patient so that there is no conflict among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">We may fall into a similar situation which may disturb us Hence we should be careful that others faults do not become public.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Above all, we have love everyone equally-friend or foe.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The meal that Jesus had with his disciples the day before he died on the Cress is known as the Last Supper.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">After this he never again had any meals with his twelve disciples on this earth: This was his last meal with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Jesus had often eaten together with his disciples; but his farewell meal was very significant in the history of the Church.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Through this meal he left us a great example.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Meals are usually are a matter of joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">But at this meal that Jesus had, there was sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">For he knew that his suffering would begin after this meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Even though there was sorrow at this meal, still through this meal Jesus made a New Covenant with man.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Through this meal he built a salvific bridge between man and God the Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Jesus was sorrowful, but for us this meal is a means of communion with the Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Everyone- the poor, the rich and the sinners can take part in this meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">A sinner can repent for his sins, confess his sins and then take part in this meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Through this meal we are united with the Lord, and the bond between the Father and his children grows strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Now we will learn about how this meal was instituted.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">In the previous lesson we came to know, how the disciples had made the arrangements for this meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In this lesson we will learn how Jesus Christ celebrated this meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">When we sit down to eat as a family, some, of us like to sit next to our father, and others next to our mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Isn't it so?</sent>
				<sent id ="175">This is very natural.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In the same way, there was a quarrel among the disciples as to who would sit next to Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">He wrapped a towel around his waist, and taking a bowl of water began to wash the feet of Ws disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Simon Peter, however, refused to let Jesus wash his feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Then Jesus said to him, If I do not wash your feet, you will no longer be my disciple.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Then Peter, let him wash his feet.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">After Jesus had washed their feet, he said to the disciples, you should do to one another what I have done to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">I have set an example for you so that you will do just what I have done for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Blessed are you, if you do it for one another (John 13 : 1 -17).</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Jesus actually wanted to teach them a lesson on humility.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">After Jesus finished washing the feet of his disciples with great humility and meekness, he sat down at the table again.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Then he said to the disciples, I have earnestly desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He took bread and when he had given thanks he broke it and gave it to them saying, Take and eat it;</sent>
				<sent id ="188">this is my body which will be given up for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Then he took a cup filled with wine, gave thanks to God, and gave it to them saying.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Drink it, all of you.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">This is my blood, which seals God's convenant, my blood poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Do this in memory of me.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Then Jesus said to them, You will all fall away because of me.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">For it is written in the Scriptures, `The flock of the sheep will be scattered (Zech.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">13 : .</sent>
				<sent id ="196">But after I am raised to life, I will go to Galilee ahead of you.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Peter spoke up and said to Jesus, I will never leave you, even though all the rest do.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Jesus said to Peter, I tell you that before the cock crows tonight, you will say three times that you do not know me.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Peter answered, I will never say that, even if I have to die with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">And all the other disciples said the same thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">By nature human beings possess some qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">These qualities find expression in their behaviour and work.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">These qualities need to be developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">One needs ; to practice or exercise these qualities in order to develop their full potential.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">If I do not use the qualities that I have, then they cannot be expressed well by any means.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">I may have intelligence, but if I do not study, then I cannot do well in the examinations.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">We can -develop our qualities by observing others develop theirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">While living on this earth, Our Lord Jesus Christ trained up his disciples in his good qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">He used his qualities for the benefit of his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">In this lesson we noticed how his affection, love, humility and meekness found expression.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Even though he was the Lord and Teacher, yet he washed the feet of his disciples and in this way set an example of humility.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Jesus has given us this meal as a sign or symbol.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Usually we understand by meal as food for the body; but Jesus gave us this meal as our spiritual food.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">In order to save us from the slavery of sin Jesus died on the Cross; he made restitution for our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He wants that if we should ever fall into sin, we should go to Confession and experience God's love as children of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">After he broke the bread, he gave to all saying, Take and eat.; this is my body given for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">It will be shed for all for the forgiveness of sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Do this in memory of me.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Jesus gave us his body and blood in the form of bread and wine for the forgiveness of our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">For the Christians, this is a matter of faith and experience.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Jesus Christ knew that there was a lack of faith in his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">It is quite natural that when the leader of a group is persecuted, the members go away.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">All the other disciples also said the same thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">But Peter denied the Lord three times.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">This shows that without God's power, no one can overcome his weakness.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Jesus said, Do to one another as I have done to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">This means we have to humble and meek towards one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">We should use all our talents and qualities for the good of ourselves, our family, our society and our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">We have to uphold our Christian ideals and dedicate ourselves to the service of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">God our loving Father, .you</sent>
				<sent id ="231">have given me many talent and qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Help me to use them for the good of myself and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Help me to take part in the Lord's Supper worthily and grow strong spiritually, morally and mentally.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">This I pray in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
