<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-christ-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.472</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">253</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3181</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1055</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t115">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Justice and truth lead to happiness and peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">There cannot be any peace or happiness without justice and truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">God wants that all men attain happiness and prosperity in.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">their personal, family, social and civic life by pursuing justice and truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Sin and evil are the root cause of all misery and unhappiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Human beings commit sins when they go astray and do evil by giving into vices such as greed, anger, envy, idleness, stealing and injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">This is how his mind, conscience and even his body get vitiated.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">And as a result he brings down evil and unhappiness on himself and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">A man's soul is contaminated by sins and injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Therefore, man has to protect his body and soul from the stain of sin and evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Young students should be obedient and listen to their parents, religious leaders, teachers and respected elders.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">They should avoid being arrogant, give up bad habits and bad companions, and shun bad advice and bad thoughts.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">But human beings are weak by nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">They fall into sin and go astray when they give into such vices as greed, envy, pride, anger, revenge, disobedience, etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">For this reason God sent prophets and teachers many times in the past to call men back to the path of justice and truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">We should remember this advice: Righteousness is the road to life; wickedness is the road to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">No one can please God by being unjust and by lying, nor can anyone find peace in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Only by being honest and doing good deeds that we can find happiness for ourselves and for others.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">We can glorify God by leading honest and good life.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Such a life is also a kind of preaching of the Word of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">We can make people understand that our God is a God of truth and justice and we are His true disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">In the teachings of the Prophets and of Jesus we find this call to justice and truth again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">In the New Testament, one of such great men was John the Baptist.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He was an ascetic and a great prophet chosen by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">It is about him that in the Bible it is written : Someone is shouting in the desert,`Prepare a road for the Lord!</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Clear the way in the desert for our God.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">In the Old Testament, Prophet Isaiah had foretold the coming of John the Baptist.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">And his prophecy came true.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">John the Baptist was the son of Zechariah, a priest of the Jews.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">John's mother's name was Elizabeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">John came to prepare the way for the coming of Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Hence he is called the `herald of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">For he announced to the Israelites the coming of Jesus the Messiah.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">His call was to conversion to the path of justice and truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">John the Baptist led a very austere life.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">His clothes were made of camel's hair; he wore a leather belt round his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He went around in the wilderness, meditating on God and praying.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He was chosen by God as the forerunner of Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">He uttered his prophetic message in a loud voice, calling men to conversion.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">In the wilderness of Judea, John told the people who gathered around him, You brood of vipers !</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come ?</sent>
				<sent id ="42">About the false prophets and the hypocrites John said to the people, By their works you will come to know them.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">For figs are not gathered from thorns, nor are grapes-picked from a bramble bush.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">A good tree bears good fruit, and a bad tree bears bad fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">In the same way, you will be known by your works.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The axe is ready to cut down the trees at the roots.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Every tree that does not bear good fruit will be cut down and thrown in the fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">He began to preach the baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins by the side of the River Jordan;</sent>
				<sent id ="49">multitude came from Jerusalem and Judea to be baptized by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Many were touched by his preaching and they repented for their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">They confessed their sins publicly and were baptized by John in the Jordan.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">John replied, No, I am not Elijah, nor am I the Messiah.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Jesus the expected Saviour is coming after me.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">I am not worthy to untie the thong of his sandals.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">I baptize you with water; but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit:</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The multitude, that gathered again asked him, What then shall we do?</sent>
				<sent id ="57">He answered, Repent and be converted.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Be honest and truthful.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">He who has two coats, let him share with him who has none; and he who has food, let him, do likewise.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">To the tax collectors he said, Collect no more than is appointed you.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Soldiers asked him, And we, what shall we do?</sent>
				<sent id ="62">John answered, Rob no one by violence or by false accusation, and be content with your wages.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Let the rulers rule with justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">With many such words John preached the word of God to the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Why did God create us?</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He created us to know him, to love him and serve him.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">He created us to live justly and honestly and to attain eternal life hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Therefore, we should be holy and keep our soul pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">While making efforts to achieve our own progress and well-being, we should also try to help others to attain the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">We should avoid sin and injustice, and we should live good and holy lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">We have to overcome greed;</sent>
				<sent id ="72">envy, pride and spirit of revenge and avoid harmful acts;</sent>
				<sent id ="73">we should practice piety and self-control.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">We should repent for our sins and live according to the teachings of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">We have to be formed well to work for the good of the country and the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">We have to give up bad habits and overcome idleness.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">We have to learn to be polite, courteous, humble and-industrious.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">We should practise such virtues and qualities as truthfulness, obedience, discipline, justice and doing good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">And in this way develop our moral and spiritual life.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Lord Jesus, help me to live a good and honest life.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Help me always to avoid bad thoughts, harmful acts, bad companions and wrong advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Help me to live according to your teachings, being obedient to my respected elders and obeying their orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Lord, let me not neglect my duties and lose any opportunity to help others.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Lord Jesus, stay with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">This I pray iii your holy name.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Out of love God created man and he created him in his own image.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">For their own happiness, he had kept them in a Garden called Eden.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Even then they disobeyed God.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">They fell into temptation.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">They were not able to overcome their greed and ambition.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">They fell into sin by disobeying God.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">As a punishment for their sins, man was driven to this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">But God loved them so much that he promised to send them a Saviour who would redeem them from their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">All through the ages God planned to save mankind from their sins by sending many prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">But even the Chosen People of God did not fulfill God's commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The other nations too forgot God and committed sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">So there was a need to send a Saviour who would lead men back to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">In the previous lesson we learned that God sent John the Baptist as the forerunner of the Messiah to prepare his way.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">John the Baptist was called `Herald of Jesus because he came before him to prepare his way.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Isnt it so?</sent>
				<sent id ="101">In the following lesson we will learn about the birth of Jesus Christ, the Saviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The northern region of Palestine is known as Galilee.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">A young girl named Mary used to live in Nazareth which was in this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Mary's father name was Joachim and her mother's name was Anna.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist, was Mary's cousin.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Mary was a very saintly woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">She never committed any sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Because she was to be the mother of our Saviour Jesus Christ, by God's special grace she was free from sin from her birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Her soul was as pure as an angel.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">By virtue of her holiness, meekness and truthfulness she was uniquely favoured by God as his chosen and beloved one.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The Angel of the Lord appeared to Mary and said, Hail, Full of grace !</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Peace be with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The Lord has greatly blessed you.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Mary was deeply troubled by the angel's message.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">For she was very meek and humble.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">She could not understand whey the angel uttered such words of praise.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Therefore she was afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The angel reassured her saying, Don't be afraid, Mary; God has been gracious to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">You will become pregnant and give birth to a son, and you will name him Jesus, which means Saviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High God.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The Lord God will give him a king, as his ancestor David was.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">His kingdom will never end.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Mary was a virgin.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">So she said to the angel, I am a virgin.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">How, then, can this be ?</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Angel Gabriel answered, The Holy spirit will rest upon you, and God's power will rest upon you.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">For this reason the holy child will be called the son of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Remember your relative Elizabeth.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It is said that she cannot have children, but she herself is now six months pregnant, even though she is very old.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">For there is nothing that God cannot do.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Mary then understood that it was God who sent Angel Gabriel to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">So she humbly said to the angel, I am the Lord's servant.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">May it happen to me as you have said.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">God now fulfilled what he had promised to mankind long ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Two thousand years ago, Our Lord Jesus Christ was born in a stable in the city of Bethlehem in Palestine.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The inhabitants of Palestine were called the Israelites or the Jews.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The Romans were occupying the land and they were ruling Palestine through their own Governor and army.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Emperor Augustus Caesar ordered a census to be taken throughout the Roman Empire.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">When this first census took place, Quirinius was the governor of Syria.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Everyone, then, went to register himself, each to his own town where their ancestors had lived.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Joseph and Mary left Nazareth which is situated in the northern region of Palestine and went to Bethlehem to register their names.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">For they were descendants of David, and Bethlehem was the city of David.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">After the registration was done, Joseph and Mary could not return home.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">But they could not find a place to stay either.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">For many people had come to Bethlehem to register their names.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">All the hotels and the inns were filled with guests.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">No one welcomed them into their private homes.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Finally they took shelter in a stable.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">It was late night; Mary gave birth to her son in this stable in Bethlehem.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Finding no place to lay the child, Mary wrapped the baby in strips of cloth and laid in a manger.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">In this way the prophecy made by Isaiah was fulfilled : A child is born to us !</sent>
				<sent id ="152">A son is given to us!</sent>
				<sent id ="153">And he will be our ruler.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">See, how much God loves mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Because of their disobedience God had thrown out Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">But he had promised to send a Saviour to redeem mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">When they continued to sin again and again, God sent the prophets to call them to conversion.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Finally he sent John the Baptist to prepare the way for the Lord's coming.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">But John too was killed by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Yet God kept his promises and sent his only son among us to show us the way of salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">We hear this spoken to us repeatedly; should we not heed this message ?</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In a spirit of humility and simplicity she obeyed God and cooperated with God's plan of salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Therefore, she is our mother too.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Think of how deep was the love of God the Son for man that he assumed human nature and came among us.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">He had no craving for power and wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">He came as a man to save mankind from their sins and lead them to the Kingdom of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">By born in a stable out of love, he showed us how much he loved the poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">God has assigned a definite task to each one of us.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">We must fulfill that task cheerfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The first duty of the children is to obey God and their parents, respected elders and teachers, and pay attention to their studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Besides, they should maintain good relationship with their neighbours, playmates and fellow students, and help them in their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">This too is a part of their obedience to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">We must also become good citizens and abide by the laws of the State as Joseph and Mary did.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Disobedience to the laws of the State creates disturbance and chaos.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">We must be meek and humble in everything we do at home, in school and in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Our Lord Jesus Christ, Mary and Joseph always did that.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">If we follow the example of Jesus, family in our personal, family and social life, then there will be peace, harmony and prosperity.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">We must obey God and walk humbly before him.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Humility is a great virtue which teaches us to lead our lives faithfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">We have to obey the laws of the State.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">We have to accept our poverty cheerfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">In all trials and difficulties we have to strive for holiness and moral integrity.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">We know that Adam and Eve were created sinless.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">They were placed in the Garden of Eden in a state of holiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">But they committed sins by disobeying God's commandments.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">So God punished them by sending them to this earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The seed of the original Sin of our parents exists in all men and women.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Hence we are all sinners and as we go our way on earth we commit sins in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">We are all sinners, we too commit many sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Man's soul is polluted by sin and he becomes unworthy to go to heaven; and he deserves punishment in hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">On account of his sins and evil deeds, man brings about unhappiness for himself and for others.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">As a result there is chaos in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">It is sin that creates disturbance and gives rise to conflicts, unrest and killings.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">We see this situation of unrest and sinful conditions between nations and peoples since the fall of man into sin at the beginning of creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">God wants all men to be liberated from sin and their souls cleansed of all sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">He want very human being to go to heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">But human beings are weak; they fall into sin and thus become unworthy to go to heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">God, sent the prophets to the world to warn people against sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">We find many such examples in the Old and the New Testaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">But people did not pay any attention, to their teaching, advice and directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">God loves man so much that he wants everyone to be converted from their sins and return to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">God sent his own Son Jesus Christ to show the way of salvation to all men.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Jesus Christ received power from God the Father.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">He is both God and Man.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Christ came to this world as a Man.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">While on earth, he worked many miracles to heal men of their physical, mental and spiritual illnesses.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">His greatest miracle was forgiving sinners.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Only God has the authority to forgive sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Jesus Christ is both God and Man at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Even as Man he possess divine power.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">He is more powerful than the saints and the prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">This is the Christ we all believe in.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The Bible teaches clearly that Jesus alone forgives sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Now let us learn about this: Jesus is God's Son, and hence even as Man he forgives our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He is our Lord and Saviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">He worked far greater miracles than healing bodily illnesses : He forgave men's sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">There are many examples of this in the Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">One day Jesus was preaching in his own hometown.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The crowd of people around him so large that there was no room to move.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">A man who was paralysed and lying on a bed was brought by his relatives.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">They were trying their best to enter the room but did not succeed.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Seeing their faith, Jesus said to the paralytic, Courage, my son !</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Your sins are forgiven.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Then some of the teachers of the Law said to themselves, This man is speaking blasphemy!</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Jesus perceived what they were thinking, so he said, Why are you thinking such evil things ?</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Is it easier to say, `Your sins are forgiven,.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">or to say, `Get up and walk ?</sent>
				<sent id ="228">I will prove to you, then, that the son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">So he said to the paralysed man, Get up, pick up your bed, and go home.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The man got up and.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">went home rejoicing.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">When the people saw such a miracle, they were afraid, and praised God for giving such authority to men.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">(Mt. 9 : 1-8).</sent>
				<sent id ="234">One day a Pharisee invited Jesus to his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">There Jesus forgave the sins of a woman who repented.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">You can know about it from Luke 7: 36 -50.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">So, you can see that Jesus had divine authority; he is the God who forgives man's sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The teachers of the Law and the religious fanatics pretended not to understand it.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">But those who put their faith in him and asked for this help were cured, and their sins were forgiven.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Jesus was God, but he became man in order to save mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">It is amazing to see how much he loved the poor, the suffering and the sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Those who came to him and believed in him, received his mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">He forgave the sins of great public sinners;</sent>
				<sent id ="244">he healed many who were sick, suffering and possessed by demons;</sent>
				<sent id ="245">he raised the dead to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Whenever we humble ourselves and ask for forgiveness, he forgives us our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">When we are in great distress and pray to him, he grants us his help.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">For making confession and obtaining forgiveness of sins, we need to examine our conscience without hiding anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Then we have to make a resolution not to commit any more sins and with true repentance make confession and ask for forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Then God will forgive us our sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">Humbly we have to ask for forgiveness for our sins and avoid the occasions of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">We have to ask for forgiveness, not only for ourselves, but for all the people of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">We have to help others in their needs as much as we can.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
