<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-christ-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.589</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">289</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3888</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1198</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t118">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We know that the Church is a community of Christian believers.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Jesus first founded his Church with the Apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">That Community of the Apostles is also known as the apostolic brotherhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Therefore, they used to address one another as brethren or dear brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The word `apostle means one who is sent.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The Apostles, as the Church, received their mission and inheritance, from Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Today there are over 45 crore Christians in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The Christian believers are the Church or the Christian Brotherhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Each and every Christian is a member of that Church or Brotherhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The Church as Mother was Strengthened by the Gifts of the Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">There were in that room 120 disciples including the eleven Apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Jesus Mother Mary and his relatives were also present there.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">All the disciples of Jesus received the Holy Spirit and his power.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">All their fear was gone.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">At this time many people from various places had come to Jerusalem to celebrate the Feast of Pentecost.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The disciples of Jesus began to give witness to him by preaching the word to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Everyone present heard in his own language what Peter preached.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">So, many people other than the Jews came to believe.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">This work is still going on and will continue till the end of times.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In the previous lesson we also learned that Jesus had given authority to his disciples and sent them out to preach the Word.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He had warned the disciples saying, Go throughout the whole world and preach the gospel to all mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">I am sending you like lambs among wolves.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">You must be as cautious as snakes and as gentle as doves.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Go and preach, The Kingdom of God i.s. at hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Heal the sick, bring the dead back to life, heal those who suffer from dreaded diseases, and drive out demons.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">You have received without paying, so give without being paid.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Don't take a purse or a beggar's bag or shoes; don't stop to greet anyone on the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Whenever you go into a house, first say, `Peace be with this house.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Stay in the house that welcomes you, eating and drinking whatever they offer you.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Heal the sick, comfort the sorrowful, and give to each needy person according to your ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">For my sake you will be brought to trial before rulers and kings, to tell the Good News to them and to the Gentiles.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">For the words you will speak, will not be yours.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">They will come from the Spirit of your Father speaking through you.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Therefore, do not fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Every faithful of the Church had to and will have to suffer persecution, in one form or other, for the sake of the gospel.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">In the next lesson we will see how Saint Stephen and Saint Peter had to suffer persecution and die.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">For the victory of the Church, suffering is unavoidable.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Jesus himself has warned us about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The Church and the Holy Bible : The principal religious book of the Church is the Holy Bible.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">It contains all the teachings of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">For the Christians it is a Book of Laws or Life for complete spiritual, moral and human perfection.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The preaching of the word of God does not mean simply to hand over a Bible to someone.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Jesus wanted his -works and message to be preached and understood.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">He said, Go and teach all people to obey everything I commanded you.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Preach the gospel to all mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Those who listen to YOU listen to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Jesus did not say, Go and give Bible to everyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The Apostles did not distribute a single copy of the Bible, for it did not exist in the written form.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They went everywhere and preached the Word of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">They served the people and worked many miracles.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The Apostles worked in the power of the Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Every baptized Christian is a disciple chosen by Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">It is our duty as members of the Church to preach the Word and do good for the people according to our abilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">God always calls us to devote ourselves to the work of preaching the gospel and to do works of charity.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Can you hear him calling you ?</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Are you ready to answer his call ?</sent>
				<sent id ="57">But we have to prove our goodwill no merely by words of mouth, but by our action.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">To serve our family, society, country and people sincerely and honestly is also a kind of apostolic work.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Jesus himself said, Give to God what belongs to God, and give to Caesar what belongs to Caesar.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Do I consider myself a member of the Church In what ways can I help the Church now ?</sent>
				<sent id ="61">What air, I thinking of doing for the Church and for the country when I grow up?</sent>
				<sent id ="62">What is my vocation ?</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Have I decided how I plan to serve my people and my country?</sent>
				<sent id ="64">How do I plan to preach Christ's message of truth and justice?</sent>
				<sent id ="65">How will it be possible ?</sent>
				<sent id ="66">I will always follow the path of truth and justice, and I will oppose injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">I will contribute for the works of the Church to the best of my ability, and I will cooperate with the Church in her work.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">I will dedicate myself for the service of people according to my capacity and ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">I will acquire and practice the virtues of humility, politeness, faithfulness and love of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">I will-grow up joyful service of God and men.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">I will trust in God and assistance of the Holy Spirit as the source of my strength and wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">I have no silver and gold, but I give you what I have; in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, walk.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">And all those present understood what the Apostles said in their own language.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Then many were baptized and became Christ's disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Peter was the eldest among the Apostles and John was the youngest.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Jesus Christ appointed Peter as the Head of the Church.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The word Pete means rock.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">On this hard and solid rock Christ built his Church.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">It is so solid and strong that it will never break down.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">At the initial stage of the Church, the Apostles worked many miracles in the name of the Lord Jesus and by his power.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Many who witnessed these miracles put their faith in Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">But the Elders and the leaders of society were disturbed by the testimony of the Apostles and the miracles worked by them.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Therefore, they began to accuse them.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">So the apostles had to face persecution and imprison ment.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">In this lesson we will learn something about that.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">In the same way, there were many beggars around the Temple in Jerusalem.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">One day Peter and John were going to the Temple at a certain hour to pray.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">There at the Beautiful Gate, as it was called, was a man who had been tame all his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Every day he was carried to the gate to beg for money from the people who were going into the Temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">He was crippled from birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">When he saw Peter and John going in, he begged them to give him something.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Peter and John were moved with pity for the man.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Then he took him by his right hand and helped him up.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">At once the man's feet and ankles became strong; he jumped up, stood on his feet, and started walking around.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Then he went into the Temple with them, walking and jumping and praising God.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Seeing the miracles, many people gathered around Peter and John in Solomon's Porch.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Peter then said to the people, Fellow- Israelites, why are you surprised at this, and why do you stare at us?</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Do you think that was by means of our own power of godliness that we make this man walk ?</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our ancestors, has given divine glory to his Servant Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It was the power of his name that gave strength to this lame man.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">But you handed him over to the enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">You rejected him in Pilate's presence, even after Pilate had decided to set him free.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Instead you asked Pilate to do you the favour of turning loose a murderer.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">You killed the one who leads to life.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">But God raised him from death.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">It was the power of his name hat gave strength to this lame man.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">My brothers, I know that what you and your leaders did to Jesus was due to your ignorance.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">God announced long ago through all the prophets that his Messiah had to suffer; and he made it come true in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Repent, then, and turn to God, so that he will forgive your sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">If you do, times of spiritual strength will come from the Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">God announced this through his holy prophets who lived long ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">For Moses said.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The Lord your God will send you a prophet, just as he sent me, and he will be on of your people.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">You are to obey everything that he tells you to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Anyone who does not obey that prophet shall be separated from God's people and destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">And all the prophets who had a message, including Samuel and those who came after him, also announced what has been happening these days.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">The promises of God through his prophets are for you, and you share in the convenient which God made with your ancestors.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">As he said to Abraham, `Through your descendants I will bless all the people on earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">In those days the Sadducees were members of the noble priestly class.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">They forbade them to talk about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">But the apostles did not stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">So the leaders of the Sadducees arrested them and put them in jail until the next day.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">But that did not have any effect, for nothing is impossible to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">On that day alone, five thousand men came to believe in Jesus and became his disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Then the Jewish leaders, the elders, and the teachers of the Law gathered in Jerusaiein.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">They met with the High Priest Anna's and with Caiaphas, and the others who belonged to the High Priest's family.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Peter, full of the Holy Spirit; answered them.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Salvation is to be found through him alone; in all the world there is no one else whom God has given who can save us.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">They all knew that Peter and John were ordinary men of no education.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">But they were amazed to see how bold and courageous they were.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">They realized then that they had been companions of Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">But there was nothing that they could say, because they saw the man who had been healed standing there.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">So they told them to leave the place, and then they started discussing among themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">They admitted that-the extraordinary miracle worked by them could not be dinied.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">But Peter and John could accept what they said.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">So they answered them, You yourselves judge which is right in God's sight-to obey you or to obey God.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">For we cannot stop speaking of what we out-selves have seen and heard.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">They saw that it was impossible to punish them, because the people were all praising God for what had happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">So, out of fear of the people they set them free.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">As soon as they were set free, they returned to the other disciples and told them what had happened.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">When the believers heard it, they all joined together in prayer to God :</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Lord God, take notice of the threats they have made, and allow us, your servants, to speak your message with all boldness.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Stretch out your hand to heal, and grant that wonders and miracles may be performed through the name of your holy Servant Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">When they finished praying, the place where they were meeting was shaken.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">They were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to proclaim God's message with boldness.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Many more people put their faith in Christ when they heard them preach.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Many who had been sick were cured.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">They thought to themselves that if at least Peter's shadow falls on they would be healed.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">So they carried the sick people out into the streets and placed them on beds and mats.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">They came bringing those who were ill or who had evil spirits in theiY1; and they were all healed.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Peter the Apostle cured the man who had been lame from birth in the name of Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Jesus had told them, Whatever you ask the Father in my name, he will give it to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Peter and John were not afraid to give witness to Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">They tried to explained to them that by doing so, they actually acted against God.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">And they told them how they could receive forgiveness for their sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">They said, Jesus Christ himself will save us from our sins and he will bless us.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Do we realize that the same sermon is preached to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Are we trying to be holy and keep our minds and hearts pure?</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Each Christian is a disciple of Jesus Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Like the Apostles, we too can preach the gospel of Christ through our words, actions and behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">May be we cannot work any miracles, but we can comfort the sorrowful, take care of the sick and help the blind walk.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">These are our moral obligations.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">And remember, we have to be just in our dealings with everyone-, injustice brings down endless sorrow and suffering on us.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In the -world today there is so much injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">No one wants to oppose such injustices.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Life in the society has become unbearable on account of rampant injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">killing, oppression, addiction., etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">It is the human, moral and social obligation of every citizen to free the nation from these evils.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">You noticed that the Apostles were not afraid to speak up against the injustices done by the leaders of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">They called them to conversion of mind and heart and invited them to walk in the path of justice and truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">We too have to walk in the way of justice and truth, and invite the sinners to come back to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">There is no room for fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Do you think you can do it ?</sent>
				<sent id ="174">We have to speak up boldly for the cause of justice and truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">This is bearing witness to justice If someone makes a mistake, we should correct him.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">In everything we must obey our conscience.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">God always helps the one does good, and he lives in peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The Apostles received divine power when the Holy Spirit came down on them.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">In the power of the Spirit they overcame all fear of death and began to preach the gospel of Christ with boldness.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">There are always obstacles to doing good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">But in order to attain success and to do something great, one has to face these problems and even risk one's life.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">If we are afraid to get involved, then we can never achieve success.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Many a mountaineer had to fall and die in trying to reach the highest peak of the Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Finally Hillary and Tenzing did what was considered impossible.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Later on others followed their path; they received inspiration from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">In the same way, in the early days of the Church, the Apostles had to face great difficulties:</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Many were persecuted by the Jews;</sent>
				<sent id ="188">some even had to give their lives like Jesus.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Even then they did not stop preaching the gospel.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">As a result now we can call ourselves Christian.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">We have in front of us the supreme example of the life of Jesus and we have tasted nectar of his word.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">One of the disciples had to give his life in trying to preach the word of Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Now we will learn about the story of that most painful death.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Do you who that person was?</sent>
				<sent id ="195">He was the first martyr, the great Saint Stephen, who was a preacher of Christianity.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Who is Stephen ?</sent>
				<sent id ="197">As a result of the evangelization work by the Apostles, the number of Christians kept growing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Those who owned fields or houses would sell them, bring the money received from the sale, and hand it over to the apostles.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">As the number of Christians grew, their property also increased.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The money was distributed to each one according to his need.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">But when the number of Christians became large, everyone was not receiving enough food to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">As result there were complaints.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">It is far more important to meet the spiritual needs and to preach the Word than catering to the physical needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">So Peter advised that they should choose seven men from among themselves who were conscientious and full of wisdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">They would be given charge of this matter and the apostles would give their full time -to prayer and the work of preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Stephen was one of the seven who were chosen.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Stephen was a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">At first he was a member of the Jewish community to Antiochus.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">And so the word of God continued to spread.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The number of disciples in Jerusalem grew larger and larger, and a great number of the Jewish priests accepted the faith in Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The Arrest of Stephen Stephen used to preach the Word of Christ side by side with his other duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">He performed many miracles by the power of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">But he was opposed by some men who were members of the synagogue and they started arguing with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">But the Spirit gave Stephen such wisdom that when he spoke, they could not refute him.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">So they brought false accusations against him saying that they heard him speaking against Moses and against God.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">In this way they stirred up the people, the elders and the teachers of the Law.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Finally they seized him and took him before the Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">All those sitting in the Council fixed their eyes on Stephen and saw that his face looked like the face of an angel.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">In order to verify what the people were saying, the High Priest said, Is it true?</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Stephen began his famous speech by addressing them as brothers and fathers.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Gathering up courage he started from Abraham and Isaac.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">God had appeared to Abraham and told him to leave his own country and go to live in another country.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">His descendants would live-in a foreign country for four hundred years where they would be persecuted: God further said that he would judge them.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Later they would be brought out of that country.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Abraham's son was Isaac, and Isaac's son was Jacob, and Jacob had twelve sons, one of whom was Joseph.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Our of jealousy, Joseph's brothers had sold him for twenty silver pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">But God saved Joseph from all dangers.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Then there was a famine all over Egypt and Canaan, which caused much suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">When Joseph's brothers came to get corn, Joseph made himself known to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Then the whole family went to live in Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">They are now known as the Israelites.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Their number kept growing large.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">At last a king began to rule Egypt who was cruel.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">He began to persecute the Jews.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">He forced them to put their baby boys out of their homes, so that they would die.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Moses was born.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">It was this Moses who finally delivered his people from the hands of Pharaoh.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">According to God's plan, they, journeyed in the desert for forty years.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">During these forty years God fed them with manna from heaven and provided then water to drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">They were delivered from, the hands of Pharaoh and led to Canaan.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">In this way Stephen narrated the history of Israel to the Council.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Finally he said to them, God has been so gracious to you; and yet your ancestors persecuted every prophet who came after Moses.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">And finally you handed over Jesus Christ, the one sent by God, to the enemies and had him killed.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">How stubborn you are!</sent>
				<sent id ="245">You have killed God's messengers through whom you received God's law.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Everything that Stephen said was true, but the Jewish leaders and the priests could not bear it.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">They because furious and ground their teeth at him in anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Stephen understood their feeling.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Full of the Holy Spirit, lie looked up to heaven and said, Look!</sent>
				<sent id ="250">I see heaven opened and the son of Man standing at the right-hand side of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">At this they started shouting.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Then they all rushed at him at once, threw him out of the city, and stoned him.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">As they kept stoning him, he prayed saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit!</sent>
				<sent id ="254">He said this and died, and he was taken to eternal rest in the presence of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Stephen was so courageous!</sent>
				<sent id ="256">We too have to face many hardships if we try to do something great.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">But we should never fear and give tip.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">God is always with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">He always gives us the courage and the strength needed to do good works.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">God has created us and he has given us many gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">We have to make use of these gifts.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">For instance, lots of hard work and perseverance are necessary to carry on with studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Only then can one secure good results.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">In our field of - work too, it is not always easy to maintain good relationship with our colleagues.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Everyone may not be equally honest and sincere.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">It is our duty to correct someone who is doing wrong and bring him back to the right path.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Stephen had to lose his life in trying to bear witness to the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">To men his death may appear to be a defeat, but in the eyes of God it is a true victory.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">He gave witness to Christ.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">As a result of his martyrdom, the number of Christians grew more rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">He is honoured as the first martyr.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Even today, those die for the faith, for the country, or for justice, are honoured as martyrs (shaheed) and heroes.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">They are the glory of a nation or a country.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">We show our respects to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">In the history of the Christian Church, throughout the ages Stephen has been honoured as the first martyr.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">In imitation of Jesus Christ, he too prayed to God for forgiveness just before his death, for those who killed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">In this way he left us and example of giving witness to God, to justice and truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">We have to make good use of the talents and qualities God has given us.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">In out life there will be many problems, but we have to face them with wisdom, intelligence and prudence.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">We have to stand for the truth and oppose injustice with courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">We must respect all religions.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">We must treat all people equally irrespective of their race, religion or caste.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">We have to remember that all people-Hindus, Muslim, Buddhists, Christians- have been created by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">We will deserve eternal punishment if we hate, envy, insult or kill someone because he professes a religion different from ours.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">These are offences in the eyes of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">These are mortal sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">We must have courage to stand for truth and justice.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">God always gives us strength and courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">We should always shun the path of evil and follow the path of truth and justice.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
