<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-eng-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.662</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">248</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2180</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">769</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t121">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Why is Anwar feeling nervous?</sent>
				<sent id ="2">How long has he been living in Nurpur?</sent>
				<sent id ="3">What kind of place is Nurpur?</sent>
				<sent id ="4">This morning Anwar is feeling nervous.he is going to start a new class at a new school.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Last year he was in class 7 at Sonapur High school in Rangpur District, but in December his family moved to Nurpur in Chittagong District.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Like Sonapur, Nurpur is a small town.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Now it is January and Anwar is going to join Class 8 at Nurpur High School.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">It is about one and a half kilometres from his home in the town, so he is going to walk there.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Anwar went to his new school with his father one week ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">They saw the headmaster, Mr Nurul Alam.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">He was a serious, but kind man.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">your going to enjoy Nurpur High School, said Mr Alam.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Its a very friendly place.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Everybody will help you, So don't feel worried.'</sent>
				<sent id ="15">But Anwar did worry.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">A new school is a new experience, he thought to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">I dont know anybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">What are the teachers and students going to be like?</sent>
				<sent id ="19">A Talk about the pictures and read the passage.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">When Anwar arrived at his new school, he met a lot of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He had a very busy day.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">When I go home, he said to himself, Im going to write some names down in my notebook because I want to remember them.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">When Anwar arrived home, he sat down in his room and wrote in his notebook.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He wrote down ten names and some notes about the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Some of the people I met on my first day at school.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Shahid : Tell us about your old school, Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Was it as nice as ours?</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Anwar : It wasn't as big, but we had a very good school shop.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Sarah : Like the one we've got here?</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Anwar : I don't know.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">I haven't seen yours yet.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Does it make a good profit?</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Luna : Quite good.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">How about the one in your old school ` Anwar : Oh, yes.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">We made enough profit from the school garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Do you have one here?</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Kashem : No, but look over there.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">I think there's enough land to make one.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Rina : Did you grow lots.of</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Anwar : Yes, but we also grew vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Kishan : Couldn't we grow both?</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Let's go and discuss it with Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Mina : OK.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">He can help us because he knows a lot about gardening.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The next day Class 8, had a discussion with their general science teacher, Mr Anis Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We've been talking with our new student, Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">sir. said Kashem.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">In his old school, they used the profit from their school shop to make a school garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">We also make a profit from our school shop and we have enough land in our school to make a garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Mr Ahmed looked out of the classroom window.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Do you want to use that piece of land over there?</sent>
				<sent id ="52">asked Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Yes, sir, answered Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Do you think it's possible?</sent>
				<sent id ="55">We want to use it to grow flowers, And vegetables, added Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">well, I don't know, said Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">What do you know about gardening?</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Some of us do gardening at home, and Anwar worked in the garden at his old school, replied Kashem.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">But couldn't you help us, sir?</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Of course, said Mr Ahrned.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">lt's good idea, but first I must discuss it with the headmasler.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Only he can decide.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">How many of you are interested in gardening?</sent>
				<sent id ="64">About twenty students put up their hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Good, that's enough, said Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">But do you know that gardening's very hard work?</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Oh ,yes, replied all the students .</sent>
				<sent id ="68">But its enjoyable too.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Then Ill discuss it with Mr Alam after school today, said Mr Ahmed. 1 Spade : made of wood and metal.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">We use it to dig deep into the soil. 2 Hoe : made of wood and metal.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">We use it dig soil and pull out weeds. 3 Rake : made of wood and bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">We use it to collect leaves and weeds, and break the top of the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">4 Leveller : made of wood or bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">We use it to level soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">5 Basket : made of bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">We use it to take weeds away and carry fertiliser in.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Now write the name of the correct tool in the gap in the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Read and act out the dialogue.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Then answer the questions below it.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Mr Ahmed is talking with his students in Class 8.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Mr Ahmed : The headmaster has given us enough money to buy some spades and hoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He is very keen to have a school garden .</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Jamal : But what about the other things?</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Mr.Ahmed : Well, anyone can make a basket or a rake or a leveller, so why should we buy them?</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Rina : Yes, Luna and I can make some baskets.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Kashem : And Anwar and I'll make some rakes, Shahid.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Can you and Kishan make some levellers?</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Shahid : Yes, of course.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Mr Ahmed : Very good.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Then after school tomorrow we'll go to the blacksmith to buy the spades and hoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">1 Why do you think the students cannot make spades and hoes?</sent>
				<sent id ="92">2 Then who do you think will make the spades and hoes?</sent>
				<sent id ="93">In pictures F & G you can see some more tools.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Have you seen them before?</sent>
				<sent id ="95">These tools are used in other countries like Canada, Australia and England.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">They are not used in Bangladesh, but their names are the same.One is a spade and one is a hoe.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">They are used like a Bangladeshi spade and hoe, but they look different.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Now look at pictures F & G again and write the name of the correct tool in the gap in the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Ashok : Right.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">We've enough iron to make them now.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Mr Ahm : That's alright.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Do you mind if we wait and look at your work?</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It seems interesting Ashok : Not at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Please go ahead.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Kashem : Your work's really interesting Ashok : That's right.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">You see that young boy there?</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Well, he is an apprentice, he's learning how to become a blacksmith.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Ganesh, pull that metal chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">There, you see?</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It makes the bellows blow into our fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Clever, isn't it?</sent>
				<sent id ="112">And all the time he's watching us and learning.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Looking and learning, I call it, Now you can look and learn too.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">A Talk about the pictures, read the Passage, then read and listen to the poem.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">That evening, Anwar arrived home late.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Did you enjoy your visit to the smithy?</sent>
				<sent id ="117">asked his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Oh, yes, replied Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">We went to the one near the college pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Oh yes, I know a poem about a smithy like that.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">It's by an American poet called Henry Longfellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He worte his poem when there were smithies in America and England like the ones we have here now,When was that?</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Oh, a long time ago, replied his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Look, here's the poem.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">He wrote it in 1841.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">A piece of land was given to the Class 8 students.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It was about twelve metres long and six metres wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The headmaster gave it to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He and Mr Ahmed chose it.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">It was chosen for three reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">It stood near the school's well, was always sunny, and during the rainy season never flooded.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">That is why it was suitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">So, when all the tools were made, the students started to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It was a hot day in March.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">They dug deep into the ground with their spades and with their hoes they broke the soil into small pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The rakes were used to collect all the weeds and the baskets to carry them away.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">After that the boys and girls used levellers to level the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">It was hard work and they began to sweat a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Then the students stopped and looked at their work.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">We've worked for one and a half hours and I'm tired, said Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">But I feel really good!</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Yes, said Luna.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">We've made our own school garden!</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Today is Wednesday at Nurpur High School and Class 8 are enjoying their Englis lesson with Mrs Ayesha Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">English is taught early on Wednesday, so everyone is feeling fresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Now the students are telling Mrs Amin about their experiences.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Sarah is feeling very upset and wants to tell Mrs Amin about something.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">It's made from dirty old rubbish, said Sarah.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">And 1dont like it.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Why must we make it madam?Make what, Sarah?</sent>
				<sent id ="151">asked Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">That rubbish over there!</sent>
				<sent id ="153">exclaimed Sarah, and she pointed out of the classroom window.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Everyone turned towards the window.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">There, near the school garden, stood some fertiliser in a bamboo bin.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">That's our fertiliser.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It's dirty because it's made from all kinds of waste materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">but it's good for the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Good for the soil.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">but not good for me! said Sarah.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Mrs Amin pointed some flowers on her desk.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Do you like these Sarah?</sent>
				<sent id ="163">asked Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Oh, yes, said Sarah.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Theyre really beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">They're not dirty, madam.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">They were grown in my garden ,explained Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">They grew out of the soil, and the soil was mixed with fertlliliser .Beautiful things often need dirty work.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Who can give me another example?</sent>
				<sent id ="170">One evening Luna and Rina were walking home together.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Look at the pond, said Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Doesn't it look beautiful?</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The two girls stood and looked at the college pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Near the smithy, the pond was covered in purple water hyacinths.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">yes, said Luna.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">And the water hyacinths look lovely, but not everyone likes them.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">My father thinks they're worse than useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Why? asked Rina surprised.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Come and see, replied Luna.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The girls walked towards the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Look, said Luna.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The water's nearly covered with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Hello, girls! said a voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">It was Rina's mother, Mrs Rehana Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">She was also walking home.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">She worked near the college pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Why are you looking into the water?</sent>
				<sent id ="188">she asked We're looking at the water hyacinths, replied Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The water's nearly covered with them.Yes, said Rina's mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">and they grow very quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">If they aren't cleared away soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">they'll cover all the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Some plants are useful, said Luna.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Bamboo, for example, can be made into furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">But water hyacinths are worse than useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Well, replied Mrs Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Water hyacinths can also be made into useful things.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Really?- asked the girls.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Yes, continued Mrs Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Come along and I'll show you.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Amir was surprised.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">I'll take them away, said his younger brother, Amir.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">I want to keep them.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Anwar was collecting some old leaves with a rake in his father's garden Why do you want to keep them? he asked.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">If we keep them for two or three weeks, theyll make good fertiliser for the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Now write the sentences in the correct order in your exercise book.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Luna and Rina walked along with Rina's mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Water hyacinths can be made into fertiliser.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">You just collect them and dry them in the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">We often do it.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Then it can be made into very good fertiliser.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Of course, if the water hyacinths are mixed with other things, like old leaves it's even better.Here we are, said Mrs Rehana Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Come and look at the vegetables in my garden, Luna.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">They look lovely and large, said Luna.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Yes, said Rina's mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It's because the soil's been mixed with that.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">She pointed to some fertiliser in the corner of the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Water hyacinths, old leaves and many other things have been used to make that fertiliser.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">But water hyacinths can be used for all sorts of different things too you know.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Come inside and see.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The two girls followed Mrs Salam into her living room.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Sit down and look at some of these pictures.-</sent>
				<sent id ="223">She showed the girls some pictures in a magazine.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">They were of chairs tables and other pieces of furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">They look lovely, the two girls said Yes,said Mrs Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">And what do you think they're made of?</sent>
				<sent id ="227">asked Luna .No, replied Mrs Salam, Water hyacinths!</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Water hyacinth; have been used to make all these beautiful things .</sent>
				<sent id ="229">You can even make paper from it.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">So you see, Luna,they really aren't.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">worse than useless!</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Mrs Rehana Salam, Luna and Rina are having a discussion.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Luna : It must be difficult to turn water hyacinths into furniture!</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Rma : Doing anything well's difficult, isn't it mummy?</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Mrs Salam : Well, growing our vegetables was hard work.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Rina : Yes, we know.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">We've started gardening at school.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Mrs Salam : Really?</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Luna : Yes.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Our class had just been given a piece of school land.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Mrs Salam : Very good!</sent>
				<sent id ="242">What are you going to grow?</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Rina : Lots of lovely flowers to make our school look beautiful!</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Luna : And vegetables to make us healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Mr Salam : Have you been given any seeds yet?</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Luna : Yes, but first we must make the soil more fertile.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Mrs Salma : Well, don't forget about the water hyacinths!</sent>
				<sent id ="248">They're very useful!</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
