<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-eng-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.765</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">599</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5348</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1532</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t123">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">A Read the dialogue and act it out.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Mrs Amin and her class are having a discussion.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Mrs Amin : Did you enjoy putting on your lay last week, students?</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Mina : Oh, yes, we did.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Anwar : It was hard work, but I think it taught us a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Rafi : How could it?</sent>
				<sent id ="7">It was only entertainment! Luna : What's wrong with entertainment?</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Mrs Amin's stories are entertaining, but don't they teach us a lot?</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Rafi : Well, what did the play teach us?</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Anwar : How to act: how to work together.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Mrs Amin : Yes, don't you think we learn from experience?</sent>
				<sent id ="12">If we experienced more things, we might learn more.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Do you remember going to the smithy with Mr Ahmed?</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Kashem : Oh, yes.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">We learned a lot from that.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Anwar : Yes, because it was an interesting experience.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Mrs Amin : But some people don't understand that.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">They think knowledge can only be found in books.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">But what about our minds?</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Books are only things!</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Rafi : I don't understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Mrs Amin : Good question, Rafi, One possible answer is in a poem.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">I'll read it out to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">day, she was very pleased to see her grandmother.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Hello Rina, her grandmother said.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Ive come for a few days while your mother's away.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">She is going to Dhaka on a five-day course.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">She's going to learn more about computers, I think.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Learn! exclaimed Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Isnt she going to teach on the Course?</sent>
				<sent id ="31">She's the same age as my Teacher, Mrs Amin .</sent>
				<sent id ="32">How can she be a student?</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Mrs, Murshed laughed, Well, Im still learning, Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">But you know everything, grandmother, said Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Mrs Murshed laughed again.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Thank you, Rina, But no, I dons.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">But there was a doctor at the hospital like that.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He was a very proud man and thought he knew everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">But how can anyone know everything?</sent>
				<sent id ="40">It's impossible.' 'Don't we learn from experience? asked Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Mrs Amin thinks we do, and youve had so much experience, grandmother.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Yes, I have, agreed Mrs Murshed.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">But how much do we learn from it?</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Do you know about the six blind men and the elephant?</sent>
				<sent id ="45">No, Rina replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Is it a story, grandmother,?</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Well, its a poem actually, explained her grandmother.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">But I'll tell you the story first.' 'Oh, thank you, grandmother.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Can Tunu hear it too?' asked Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Yes, of course he can, replied Mrs Murshed.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Call him here, and I,II tell it to you both.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">So Rina ran into the granden and called Tunu.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Then they sat down and listened to their grandmother's story.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Once upon a time, many years ago, there lived six young men.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">They were very keen to learn and never stopped searching for knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">But unfortunately all of them were blind.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">One day they were walking through the dark Indian forest, when they heard a sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">They all stopped and listened carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">one of them asked.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">They listened again.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Lets go and find out, another said.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">I dont think its dangerous and we might learn something new.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">So very slowly and carefully they approached the sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Suddenly a voice called out.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Good morning, gentlemen.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Where are you going?</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Oh, nowhere; we're just looking for something,' replied the six blind men nervously.'</sent>
				<sent id ="68">'Who are you?</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Im a teacher, replied the voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Can I help you?</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Perhaps you could teach us something new and interesting?</sent>
				<sent id ="72">they all suggested eagerly.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Certainly, I could, replied the voice, But first let me tie up my elephant.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">asked the blind men curiously.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Well, replied the teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Follow me and youll find our.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The six blind men felt very happy as they followed the voice of their new teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">were going to learn something new and interesting today, they all said excitedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">How can we do that?</sent>
				<sent id ="80">they asked him.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">After about ten minutes, he told them to stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Take it in turns to feel it very carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">the teacher answered.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">My elephant is here, he explanined to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The six blind men followed their teacher through the dark Indian forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">You dont know about it, but now you can find out.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Then you will know about it for yourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">The six blind men stood in front of the elephant.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Then they took it in turns to feel the elephant.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">First blind man : Oh, what's this?</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Let me feel.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">It's very big and rough, just like a wall!</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Second blind man : Now let me feel it.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">It's not rough, it's smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">And it's round and long.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">It's just like a spear!</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Third blind man : Let me feel it now.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">It's not like a spear.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">It's moving and it's soft!</sent>
				<sent id ="100">It's more like a snake!</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Fourth blind man : Now it's my turn.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Let me feel it.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It's not moving.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It's thick and large.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It's just like a tree!</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Fifth blind man : Right, now let me feel it.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">It's large, but it isn't thick.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">It's just like a fan! Sixth blind man : I don't understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">You've all said different things.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Now let me feel it.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Oh, yes, it's definitely moving, but not like a snake.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">It's swinging like a rope!</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The six blind men argued because they couldn't agree with each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The teacher let them argue with each other for some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Then he cried out.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Stop and listen to me!</sent>
				<sent id ="117">When the six blind men heard their teacher, they felt ashamed and stopped arguing.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">We're sorry, they said.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">We forgot about you.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Would you help us?</sent>
				<sent id ="121">We've all felt your elephant, but unfortunately we can't agree about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The teacher laughed, Yes, you've all got different opinions, but you're all right The six blind men were confused, How can we all be right?</sent>
				<sent id ="123">We don't agree with each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">We don't understand, The teacher laughed again, I've lived in this forest for many years, he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">It's dark here because of the trees.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">And the sky is far away; a small circle of light, Is the sky a small circle of light?</sent>
				<sent id ="127">asked the six blind men, Is the elephant a wall, or a spear, or a snake, or a tree, or a fan, or a rope?</sent>
				<sent id ="128">asked the teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">My elephant is huge and there is no end to the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">They are all these things and more, About ten miles from Frankel's town was a city with a famous university.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Frankel decided to go there and talk to his friends, the Professors.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">I was a student here twenty years ago, he told them.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Since then I have studied for a long time and made many discoveries.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">But if I don't have a student, all my knowledge will be wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">So please ask all your best students to come and see me as soon as soon possible, and I will choose a suitable one,.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The university professors told their best students and when they heard about Frankels plan, they all felt very excited.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He's- such a famous magician, they said, He could teach us a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">So they all went to see Frankel and finally he chose one.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">His name was Hans.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Hans was eighteen years old and an intelligent and keen student.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">When he told his father about Frankel, his father was pleased, I've known Frankel ever since I've lived in this town, he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">He's a powerful magician and a very good man.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">He'll be an excellent teacher for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">We'll go and see him together.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">So Hans and his father went to see Frankel, and Frankel spoke to Hans.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Then Han's father said to Frankel, If my son stays with you, hell learn more.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">I can give you some money for him every month, Frankel liked Hans, so he answered, That's an excellent idea.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">When would you like to start, Hans?</sent>
				<sent id ="149">How about tomorrow?</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Oh, thank you very much, sir, replied Hans happily.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">A Talk about the picture and read the dialogue.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Then act it out.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It was warm and sunny the next day and Hans arrived early at Frankel's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Frankel : This is your room, Hans.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">I hope you'll like it.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Hans : Oh it's very nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Thank you, sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Frankel : I'm glad you like it.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Will you keep it clean and tidy?</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Hans : Of course, sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">What about the other rooms?</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Frankel : Thank you, but it's not necessary to clean the other rooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Only the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Hans : Is it in your house?</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Frankel : Yes, I'll show it to you now.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Hang : What are all these complicated things?</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Frankel : They're my instruments.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">They have to be kept very clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">It's important for my work.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">But in order to clean them you must know about them well, Haas.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Some of them are very delicate.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In this way you'll begin to learn the art of magic.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Hans : I thought it was a science, sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Frankel : Did you?</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Well, in some ways it is but for some reason people call it an art Now it's time to begin our work.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Come along, Hans.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Hans lived happily and worked hard in Frankel's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He admired Frankel and his magic powers, but he was puzzled.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Frankel's house was always clean, but who cleaned it?</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Hans cleaned the laboratory and his own room, but who cleaned the other ones?</sent>
				<sent id ="181">And who cooked the meals?</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It was very puzzling.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Could Frankel use his magic to do all these things?</sent>
				<sent id ="184">One day Hans was cleaning a very complicated and delicate instrument.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Clean it very carefully, Hans, said Frankel.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">I'm going to use this instrument to cast a very powerful spell.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">A very powerful spell!</sent>
				<sent id ="188">exclaimed Hans excitedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Oh, how interesting!</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Can I watch you cast it please, sir?</sent>
				<sent id ="191">If you clean this instrument properly, you'll certainly learn something about the spell, replied Frankel.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">But I'm afraid you can't watch me cast it.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Hans looked very disappointed, so Frankel explained.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">You're learning very well, Hans and I'm really very pleased with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">But you must be patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">You see, my magic is very powerful, so it can be dangerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">But it was difficult for Hans to be patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">He felt very curious and because he admired Frankel he wanted to be like him.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">He wanted to become a powerful magician quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Frankel understood Hans very well and felt worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">What would happen if Hans tried to use my magic too early? he asked himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">He could hurt himself and others badly.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">I must do something.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">We only really learn from experience, so I must teach him a lesson quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">A Talk about the pictures and read the story.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The next day, after breakfast, Frankel went to see his friend and Hans went to the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">It was very dirty, so Hans started to clean it.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Suddenly he stopped.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Why am I working so hard? he asked himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">There's no need to.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">I can use Frankel's spell for housework instead.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Hans felt excited but nervous as he walked into Frankel's library.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The small metal object and the book were still there on Frankel's desk.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Hans sat down and looked at the book.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Then he held the small metal object and followed the instructions carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It wasn't easy to cast the spe1L but he did his best.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Then he stood There, I've done it, he said to himself proudly.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">After a few minutes, the door of the laboratory suddenly opened and in walked a brush.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">It had arms and legs just like a person and was carrying a bucket of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Hans was amazed.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Goodness! he exclaimed.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Is the brush going to clean the floor?</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The brush emptied the water onto the floor, and then went out.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">After a few minutes it returned and emptied another bucket of water onto the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">That's enough water, brush, said Hans.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">You can start cleaning the floor now.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">But the brush didn't start washing anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Perhaps it didn't have any ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Instead of washing the floor, it went out and fetched another bucket of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Then it fetched another bucket of water, and then another.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Stop! shouted Hans loudly.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">But either the brush couldn't hear, or it didn't want to stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">It just continued to fetch more buckets of water and pour them over the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Then the laboratory began to flood.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Mrs Amin : In the story, Hans experienced a flood, but I know you have all experienced floods.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">What can you tell me about them?</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Shahid : We have them in Nurpur every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Rina : It's even worse in the rural areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">My grandmother, aunt and uncle come to stay with us every year because of floods.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Mrs Amin : Well, I want you all to write about a flood.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">You could either write about your experience of a flood, or you could write about a flood that other people have experienced.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Maybe they told you about it, or you read about it in a newspaper.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Try to make it simple, but exciting.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The water in the laboratory rose higher and higher and Hans grew more and more worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">If I don't do something quickly, the whole house will be flooded, he thought to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Then he saw a large axe.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">It was lying just beside the forge.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">He picked it up and waved it in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Stop, brush, or I'll break you with this! he shouted.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">But the brush didn't stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">So Hans took the brush and cut it in two.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">There! he exclaimed, Now you'll have to stop!</sent>
				<sent id ="253">But Hans was wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The two broken pieces quickly grew more arms and legs, went out, and returned with a bucket of water each.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Now Hans grew frightened and attacked the two brushes angrily with his axe.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">But when each brush was cut in two, the four pieces grew yet more arms and legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Then all four brushes went out to fetch more buckets of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Oh, what am I to do? cried Hans.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Why wasn't I more patient?</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Why didn't I listen to my dear teacher!</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Suddenly Hans remembered Frankel's library.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">I didn't shut the door!</sent>
				<sent id ="263">What will happen, to Frankel's books?</sent>
				<sent id ="264">They'll all be spoilt in the flood!</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Hans looked nervously towards the library.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">There was someone there.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Behind Frankel's desk rose a huge dark shadow.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Read the story and act out the dialogue.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">When Hans saw the huge shadow, he felt so afraid that he forgot everything else and tried to run away.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">But he couldn't.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Then he tried to cry out, Please don't punish me!-</sent>
				<sent id ="272">But when he opened his-mouth, no sound came out I'm going to be killed.-</sent>
				<sent id ="273">And when I'm dead, I won't be able to grow arms and legs again like the brushes.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Where are they?</sent>
				<sent id ="275">And the water!</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Where is it?</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Hans looked down.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">His feet were dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">The laboratory was dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Have I been dreaming?</sent>
				<sent id ="281">No. you haven't been dreaming, said a voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Hans turned round and there in his library, was Frankel.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Hans shook with fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Frankel : Did you try to cast one of my spells.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Hans : Yes, Sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Please forgive me.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Frankel : fortunately it wasn't a powerful spell: but the results were serious.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The books in my library were neared spoilt.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">And you almost drowned.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Don't you think that's serious, Hans''.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Frankel : I told you to be careful.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Why do you think I told you that, Hans?</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Hans : Because I don't know much about magic.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Frankel : How can you know much, Hans?</sent>
				<sent id ="295">You're a student and you've only just started to learn.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">You were impatient and wanted to cast a spell with your little knowledge, but a little knowledge is a dangerous thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">If you're impatient again Hans : I'll never be impatient again, sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">I've really learned my lesson.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">When Mrs Amin finished the story, she said, In the story, Frankel told Hans, A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Can any of you give me another example of that?</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Anwar put up his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Well, replied Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">My cousin in Dhaka is very interested in cars._</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Last year he was very excited, because his father bought one.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">When my uncle drove his new car, my cousin sat beside him and watched carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">He looked at everything my uncle did, because he wanted to drive the car himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Then, one day, when my uncle and aunt were visiting us in Nurpur, my cousin decided to drive the car himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">He started the car and began to drive it into the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">He was so busy driving, however, that he didn't see another car coming towards him.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">As he drove the car into the road, the other car drove straight into him.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">When my uncle found but, he wasn't very pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">I'm sure he wasn't, Anwar! said Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Thank you very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">That was an excellent example.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Now, are there any others?</sent>
				<sent id ="316">There are many more.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">So, first I'd like you to tell your stories to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">They can be about your own -experiences or other people's.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Or you can use your imagination and make up a story.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">So first think about your story.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Then tell it to your partner.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Then write it down in your exercise book.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The title will be A Little Knowledge Is A Dangerous Thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Who wants to visit the smithy?</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Mr Ahmed asked Class 8 students the next day after school.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">About four or five boys were keen to go there with Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">We have asked our.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">parents, they said.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">So there's no problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Very good, said Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Then let's go.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">We can walk there, because it's not very far.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">The smithy stands near the large pond in front of Nurpur Government College.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">People call it the college pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Mr Ahmed pointed to a small hut.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">There it is, he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">Can you hear anything?</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Oh, yes, said Kashem.I can hear a noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">Bang! Bang! Bang!</sent>
				<sent id ="340">What is it?</sent>
				<sent id ="341">It's the noise of the blacksmiths at their forge, explained Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Come and see for yourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Mr Ahmed and the boys walked up to the smithy and looked in.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Inside the hut were two blacksmiths.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">They were working together in front of their forge.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">They could also see a young boy of about their own age.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">He was helping the two blacksmiths as he was an apprentice.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">He pulled a small metal chain.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">When he pulled it, the bellows blew.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Mr Ahmed and his students could see the large bellows at the back of the smithy.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">And in front of the bellows stood the forge.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">The two blacksmiths were small but their muscles were as strong as iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Bang! Bang! Bang! Went their hammers.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">And the bright, burning sparks flew up in the air.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Some months have passed and Mrs Ayesha Amin is talking to her class 8 students.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">This morning, 1m very happy, said Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Do you know why? she asked.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Well, 1l[ tell you.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">It's because of our new school garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">You've all helped to make it look really beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Look! she exclaimed.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">These flowers are from there.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">There was a vase of flowers on her desk.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">And you've grown some lovely fresh vegetables too, she continued You've all worked very hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">So today I'm going to tell you a story.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">The students were very happy and sat and listened very quietly.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Who's this'.' asked Mrs Ainin.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">She showed her class a picture of a mar.. He's not Bangladeshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Is he American?</sent>
				<sent id ="370">No, replied Mrs Amin But you're right, Shahid.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">He isn't Bangladeshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Look at his clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">Did he live a long time ago'?</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Good! Yes, he lived a very lung time ago, replied Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">In fact about two thousand years ago!</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Where done you think he calve from?</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Canada, England, and Italy were suggested, but none of the countries was right.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Italy's the best answer, said Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">But he came from another country in the south of Europe.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Spain! suggested Kishan.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">No, answered Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Well done, Mina! exclaimed Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">Good! Yes, he came from Greece.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">His name's Aesop, and he helped to make many people happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">How do you think he did it?</sent>
				<sent id ="386">Did he grow lovely flowers?</sent>
				<sent id ="387">No, he wasnt a gardener, replied Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">He was a story- teller, and I'm going to tell you one of his stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">After some time, the warm sunny days finished.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Then the winter season came and the weather in Greece grew cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">The soft earth became hard and nothing could grow.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">The leaves dropped off the trees and the countryside looked bare and grey.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">Then it started snowing and the fields were, covered in soft white snow.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Mr Ant stayed inside his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Through his windows he looked at the trees and the white fields covered in snow.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">One morning, Mr. Ant was eating his breakfast when there was a knock at his door.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">Come in! he shouted.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">The door opened and there was Mr. Grasshopper standing outside in the cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Come in! shouted Mr. Ant again.. Would you like same breakfast!</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Mr Grasshopper walked in very slowly and sat down.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">asked Mr Ant.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">You look ill.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">It's so cold, and I've nothing to eat, cried Mr. Grasshopper unhappily.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">What can I do, Mr. Ant?</sent>
				<sent id ="405">Mr Grasshopper sat down and Mr Ant gave him some breakfast.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">While Mr. Grasshopper ate it, Mr. Ant spoke to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">I feel very sorry for you, Mr. Grasshopper, he said, but while you were enjoying the warm summer months, 1 thought about the future.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Do you remember?</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Yes; I do.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">replied Mr. Grasshopper.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">-The future does exist.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">It exists now.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">I was foolish.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">While you worked, I did nothing, and now I have nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">My wife and 1 decided that we would have to do something, We have to do something quickly, my wife said.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">So we got some bamboo and made a fence all round the edge of our garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">It was so strong that the cows and goats couldn't get in and eat our plants again.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">So we felt safe and planted some more seeds and seedings.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">We also thought we would plant a hedge, because a is more permanent than a fence.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">And a thorny hedge is stronger than a fence.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">So, while we were looking after the young plants, we started planting a thorny hedge around the edge of the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Then, after three or four months, our plants will always be completely safe, we thought, Our Plants grew very well.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Then one day, when my wife was weeding in the garden, she called out to me, Come over here, dear, she said.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">All those tender green leaves have been eaten.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Who's been eating them this time?</sent>
				<sent id ="426">And so we had a new problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Mr. Antis Ahmed continues telling a story to Mrs Rehana Salem and his Class 8 students.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">When Suruj Ali knew that the mangoes were sour, he took them away quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Then he rushed into the mango orchard and picked some fresh ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">These ones look good, he said to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Then he brought them to his master and went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">After a few minutes, however, Suruj Ali heard his master shouting, so he rushed back.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">What's the matter, sir? he asked.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">'These mangoes are sour too!</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Hamidur Rahman shouted.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">How long have you been working for me?</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Three years, sir, Suruj Ali replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Three years and you still don't know which mangoes are sweet and which ones are sour!</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Hamidur Rahman exclaimed.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">1 feel ashamed of you!</sent>
				<sent id ="441">How can 1 know which mangoes are sweet and which are sour, sir? asked Suruj Ali.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">You told me to look after your mangoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">You didn't tell me to eat them.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Suruj All, you're right, said Hamidur Rahman.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">I admire your honesty and I'm proud of you.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Such honesty must certainly be rewarded.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">Here take this gold coin.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Thank you, sir, said Suruj Ali.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Mrs Rehana Salam wrote a note to her daughter and gave it to the house keeper.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">Give this to Rina when she comes home from school.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">she told her.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Then, when she has fed the chickens and watered the plants, you can go home.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Then she and Anwar walked quickly up the road towards the college pond together.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">There's your mother, over there, said Anwar, when they arrived at the college pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Mrs Salam's mother was still lying unconscious on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">She lay on her side with Kashem and a lady kneeling beside her.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">The lady was wiping Mrs Siddiqua Murshed's forehead with a coal, damp cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">We Must take her to the hospital, said Mrs Salem.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">But she mustn't sit up.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">She'll have to lie dawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Shall I get a push-cart'.' asked Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Then she'll be able to lie down.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">That's a good idea.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Anwar, Mrs Salani replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">Try and get one now.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">So Anwar got a push-tart, while Kashem and the lady helped Mrs Salam to look after her mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">When the push-cart arrived.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Mrs Salam, Kashem and Anwar gently lifted Mrs Murshed onto it.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">Then Mrs Salem thanked the lady for helping her mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">And she, Anwar and Kashem got on to the push-cart and went to the hospital.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">The next morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Rina's mother reminded her about the eggs.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">Have you remembered Mr Anis Ahmed's eggs, Ring'.' she asked her.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">Yes, thank you, mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">I haven't forgotten them, Rina replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">After breakfast Rina collected about half a dozen eggs from the chicken house and put them carefully into a paper hall.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Then she carried them to school.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">She felt so excited and happy that she ran quickly along the path to the college pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">Mr. Ahmed's going to he very pleased with these lovely eggs, she thought to herself.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">While Rina was running near the college pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">she suddenly tripped over a stone and fell.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">She didn't hurt herself very much, but she dropped her paper bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">She stood up quickly and looked down at the paper bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">It was broken and something inside was making it damp.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">Rina bent down and carefully looked inside the paper hag.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">All her lovely eggs were broken!</sent>
				<sent id ="487">Rina felt very sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">Oh, what can l do now she asked herself.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">I cant take these broken eggs to school or back home.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">Now they're useless: Rina felt so upset that she started to cry.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">What's the matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">Rina a voice said.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">It was her best friend, Luna.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">Luna put her hand round Rina s shoulders and soon Rina felt better.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Then they walked to school together and Rina told her about her accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">In the city of Dhaka there lived a Class student called Salma.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">When she was returning home from school, she saw, something lying on the road, I wonder what it is?</sent>
				<sent id ="498">she asked herself.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">She felt curious and walked up to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Oh, dear- exclaimed Salma to herself.-It's a bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">Someone; must have lost it.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">If 1 pick it up people may think I'm a thief' But Salma was a very responsible young person and wasn't afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">If I leave the bag here, someone else may take it.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">So she picked up the hag and took it home.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">When Salma arrived home.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">her elder brother, Rafiq, was there.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">She showed him the bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">When they looked inside it, they found many things.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">`Looked inside it, they found many things.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">Look, heres a passport, said Rafiq.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">It's British and belongs to someone called Janet Green.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">This bag must belong to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="513">She was horn in Bristol in 1993 and is a social worker.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">And here are some more things: some keys and an address card.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">Does Janet Green live in Dhaka now?</sent>
				<sent id ="516">Salma asked No.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">I dont think so, her brother replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">Look at this address card.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">This isn't her name, but I think she must he staying here.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">Salma looked at the address card.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">Let's phone and find out if Janet Green is staving at this address. said Salma.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">The next day, Ruplal walked back to his village and picked up his cat.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">Then he put it in a basket-and returned quickly to his hut in the jungle.</sent>
				<sent id ="524">After such a busy day, Ruplal slept very well that night.</sent>
				<sent id ="525">The next morning, Ruplal woke up and saw his cat.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">It looked very pleased with itself.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">In front of the cat was a dead mouse.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">Oh, you clever cat exclaimed Ruplal.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">Youve killed that naughty mouse.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">Now I must give you a reward.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">Ruplal wanted to give his clever cat some milk, but he didn't have any.</sent>
				<sent id ="532">'Oh, dear' What shall I do? he asked.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">I'll have to go and fetch my cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="534">So the next day, Ruplal walked back to his village again and returned quickly with his cow.</sent>
				<sent id ="535">Then both Ruplal and the cat were able to enjoy lovely fresh milk every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">But what about the cow?</sent>
				<sent id ="537">It couldn't find anything good to eat in the jungle and slowly it grew thinner and thinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="538">'Oh, you poor cow! said Ruplal.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">Ill either have to get a boy to look after you, or youll die.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">I already have two companions.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">So why not have three?</sent>
				<sent id ="542">So the next morning, Ruplal walked back to his village again and returned quickly with his younger brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="543">Once upon a time there lived a famous magician called Frankel.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">He lived in a small town in Germany and worked there in a laboratory in his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">In it he made his magic spells.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">He was a good magician, because he only used his spells to make bad people good.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">And if they improved he would take his magic spell off them.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">Frankel lived by himself in a large house.</sent>
				<sent id ="549">No he never did any housework.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">He used his magic spells to make his life easier and more comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">Why waste time on housework? he would say.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">What matters is my magic.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">That's much more important.-</sent>
				<sent id ="554">But the housework had to be done by Somebody.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">So Frankel used spells to makes his furniture do it.</sent>
				<sent id ="556">He would cast a spell and gay, Chair, wash.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">and Brush, Sweep the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">Then the chair and the brush would grow arms and legs and wash his shirt and sweep the floor.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">Many years went by and slowly Frankel grew older and older.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">One day when he was sitting alone by his fire, he thought to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">I'm getting old.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">Who will do all my work, when I've gone?</sent>
				<sent id ="563">If nobody does it, then all my knowledge of magic will he wasted.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">I must look for a student, some one suitable: a smart.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">Intelligent, hard-working young boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">The next day Hans and Frankel were working together in the laboratory, when Frankel said, Oh, Hans, the house is getting rather dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">Would you like me to clean it- asked Hans.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">No. thank you, Hans, replied Frankel.</sent>
				<sent id ="569">There's no need.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">I'll just go into my library for a few moments.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">I won't be long.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">Hans continued to work, When suddenly he noticed something unusual.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">The library door was open.</sent>
				<sent id ="574">He was standing near it, so for the first time he would be able to see a spell being cast.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">Hans felt very excited.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">He stopped working and watched carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">Frankel opened a large book.</sent>
				<sent id ="578">I must just check.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">Frankel said to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">Can't we be too careful these days!</sent>
				<sent id ="581">Now, where are we?</sent>
				<sent id ="582">Spells for housework.</sent>
				<sent id ="583">Ah, here we are.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Now, what shall we eat for dinner today?</sent>
				<sent id ="585">How about chicken and fish?</sent>
				<sent id ="586">Yes, Hans would like that.</sent>
				<sent id ="587">Right, here we go.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">Frankel sat down: picked tip a small metal object and started to read from the book.</sent>
				<sent id ="589">He must be casting the spell for housework.</sent>
				<sent id ="590">Hans thought to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">Then, after a few minutes Frankel stood up, returned to the laboratory, and started working with Hans again.</sent>
				<sent id ="592">Frankel and Hans worked hard all day in the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">They heated and mixed many different chemicals and metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="594">so the laboratory became very dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">When they finished their work, Frankel said.</sent>
				<sent id ="596">There's no need to clean the laboratory today.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">Hans, I'm visiting a friend tomorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">You can clean it then.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">Now let's wash ourselves and then we can enjoy our dinner.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
