<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-eng-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.72</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">800</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">7553</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1961</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t122">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Mrs Ayesha Amin liked to tell stories to her students every month.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">She told them from Memory, because she didn't like to read to her students from story books.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">'Did Aesop Read the stories from books?</sent>
				<sent id ="4">asked kishan .</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Oh no, replied Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">If you stand in front of people and read from a book, it's boring!' she exclaimed.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">All the student liked Mrs Amin's stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">'What kind of stories did Aesop tell?' asked Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Fables, replied Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Do you know what fables are?</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Nobody replied because nobody knew.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">well, continued Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Fables are stories with a message, or a moral.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">They help to teach a lesson like Work hard, don't be lazy.'</sent>
				<sent id ="15">In fact, that's the moral of my story this morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">You've all helped to make our school better and worked very hard in the school garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Now we can see the result.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">My story's about that.' Was Aesop like a teacher then?</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Well, yes replied Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">He liked to teach people, but he also like to entertain them.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">people like being entertained.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">They learn better when they enjoy themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Aesop thought, and I agree with him Stories with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Stories with a moral help to make us wiser!</sent>
				<sent id ="25">One upon a time two farmers Mr Ant And Mr Grasshopper lived in the same Village near the sea in Greece.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">They were very good friends, but as you will see, They were very different people.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Mr Ant Was a very serious, hard-working person.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He got up very early in the mooring, ate a small breakfast, and then started working on his farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He worked very hard all day under the hot summer sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">He planted many crops and looked after them carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">I like to water my crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Everyday, he told his friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">And as soon as they're ready, I like to collect them quickly and put them safely in my house, Dont You ever stop working?</sent>
				<sent id ="34">asked Mr Grasshopper.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">When do you eat? Oh I just stop working eat very quickly and then start working again, Mr Ant replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">I dontt like to waste any time!</sent>
				<sent id ="37">but there's plenty of time !' exclaimed Mr Grasshopper.. What's the hurry?</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Look at me.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Sometimes it's sunny.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Sometimes it rains.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Let the sun and the rain take care of your crops.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Take a holiday!</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Enjoy yourself, my friend!</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Mr Grasshopper didn't like to work during the lovely hot summer days.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Its really not necessary, he told Mr Ant.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Why do you work so hard when there's planty of food to eat?, Mr Grasshopper asked him.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Theres planty of food now, agreed Mr Ant.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">But what about the future?</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Oh, the future!, exclaimed Mr Grasshopper.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Why do you care about the future, Mr Ant?</sent>
				<sent id ="51">It really doesnt exist!</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Only the present exists!</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Mr Grasshopper laughed.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Then he started to sing a song.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Mr Grasshopper sang very well and Mr Ant listened to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Mr Grasshopper sang his song and then he asked Mr Ant.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Would you like to hear another song?</sent>
				<sent id ="58">I know my good ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Oh, thank you very much, replied Mr Ant politely.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Thats very kind of you, Mr Grasshopper, but I really must return to my work now.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">I've lots of things to do, you know.' 'Oh, do sit down and relax,' said Mr Grasshopper.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Have something to eat or would you like a nice cold drink?</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Thank you very much, said Mr Ant again.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">But I really must go now.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">So Mr Grasshopper sang another song and Mr Ant returned to his farm and started working again in his fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">While Mr Ant worked on his farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Mr Grasshopper sang happily in the warm sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">And when he stopped, he sat and admired the beautiful countryside all around him.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He looked at the leaves on the trees, the green fields, and the fishermen's boats on the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Then Mr Grasshopper fell asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">While Mr Grasshopper slept quietly in his chair.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Mr Ant continued to work on his farm.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">For many days, weeks and months, he was busy in his fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">And as soon as his crops were ready.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">he stored the grain in his granary.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">So, while Mr. Grasshopper enjoyed his leisure, Mr Ant worked hard from morning until night.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">When Mr Grasshopper finished his breakfast, he felt better.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Thank you, Mr Ant, but I must get back to my family now, he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">My wife and children are also very weak and sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">We don't have any food in our house now.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">While you thought about the future and worked hard, I was lazy and thoughtless.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Now there isn't any future for me.' 'Oh, I am sorry, Mr Grasshopper, said Mr Ant.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Mr Ant thought he would tell his wife about his friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Can we help Mr Grasshopper, dear,? he asked her.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Well, Id like to help your friend, Mrs Ant replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">But many of our crops have already been sold in order to buy things like fuel, and to pay for our children's school fees.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Everything's so expensive nowadays.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">We've enough for ourselves, but we aren't rich.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Mr Ant agreed.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Youre right, my dear he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Poor Mr Grasshopper!</sent>
				<sent id ="92">We cant help him very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">After some time, the days grew warmer and the earth grew soft, so Mr Ant thought he would start working again in his fields.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">But where was his friend, Mr Grasshopper, now?</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Mrs Ayesha Amin has finished her story about Mr Ant and Mr Grasshopper.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Now she is talking with her student about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Mrs Amin : Did you like Aesop's fable, students?</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Student : Oh, yes, madam.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Rina : I liked it very much, but I felt sorry for Mr Grasshopper!</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Kishan : Well, it was his own fault!</sent>
				<sent id ="101">He was so lazy that the didn't do anything to help himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Mrs Amin : Yes, that's the moral to the story.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Sarah : Not to be lazy and work hard?</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Mrs Amin : yes, and think about the future.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">I decided I'd tell you this story, because you've started to plan for the future, just like Mr Ant.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Kahsem : Have we? Mrs Amin : yes, with your new school garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">You're planting seeds and seedling now, and in the future you'll have more flowers and lost of lovely vegetables!</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Weve planted for the future, he told them.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Here in Bangladesh, weve three kinds of vegetables, summer, winter and all season.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It was between winter and summer when I gave you the seeds and seedlings, so we ve planted all season vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Look, I'll show them to you.' Mr Ahmed showed the students his all season vegetable chart.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">look heres black colocasia.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">It has big green leaves and a white root.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Can we eat the leaes?</sent>
				<sent id ="115">No, replied Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Only the root.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Now this is an eggplant.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Its also called a brinjal.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It has two names and as you can see, it's quite large.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">And this is red amaranth and this one is green amaranth.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">As you can see, the green one's much taller and the leaves are a bit larger too.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">And this long vegetable is called okra and it's green.'</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Mr Ahmed's seeds and seedling were so good and the soil so fertile that the vegetables grew very well.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The students saw all their lovely vegetable, as well as some colourful flowers, growing well in their school garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">When they saw their beautiful garden, they were very happy and watered and weeded it regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">One sunny morning Mr Anis Ahmed and his Class student were looking at the tender green plants in their school garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">They re growing very well , said Mr. Ahmed .</sent>
				<sent id ="128">But Im a bit worried about them.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Why? asked Shahid .</sent>
				<sent id ="130">What s the problem ?</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Well, Mr. Ahmed replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Come and sit in the shade of this tree and Ill tell you.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">About ten years ago my wife and I come to live here in Nurpur .</sent>
				<sent id ="134">We built a house for ourselves on a nice piece of land and made a garden around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Then we planted seeds and seedling in our garden, just like you've done here.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">We worked so hard that soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Our flowers and vegetable were growing very well.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Early one morning we were eating our breakfast and looking out of the window, when we saw some cows and goats in our garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">We were shocked because they were eating all our young plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">How long have they been there?.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">My wife asked.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">I don't know,' I replied .</sent>
				<sent id ="143">We quick ran out into the garden and chased the cows and goats away.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">But it was too late.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">We stood and looked at our garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">All our lovely young plants have been eaten , we cried.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Yes, my wife agreed.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">But the enemy won't come if we stay here .</sent>
				<sent id ="149">We'll have to hide in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">So we hid inside our house, looked out of the window and waited.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Suddenly we noticed something small.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">It flew down from the bough of a tree on to one of our plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It was a bird and it started eating a small green leaf, So that's our enemy!</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Soon there were three or four birds all eating our lovely plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Then we ran quickly out of the house and frightened the birds away.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Now what can we do ?</sent>
				<sent id ="157">We cant stand here and watch our plants all day !</sent>
				<sent id ="158">So we tied a chain to an old kerosene tin and put some small pieces of metal into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Then we tied the.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Sometimes we pulled the chain When the tin moved it made a loud noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Then the birds flew away and again our plants were safe!</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The first paragraph is written for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The Class 8 student enjoyed Mr Anis Ahmed's story very much .</sent>
				<sent id ="164">'Thank you very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We've learnt a lot ', they said.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">' Now we're keen to follow your example and work for the future.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">After three or four weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The flowers and vegetables were quit tall.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He lived in a house beside the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Then the school garden looked very beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">He weeded the soil and watered the young plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He looked after it every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">When Mr Anis Ahmed and his Class students went home, the school garden was looked after by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Bahadur was the friendly old bearer at Nurpure High School.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Our school garden looks so beautiful that everyone admires it, Rina told her mother one day.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Would you like to see it too?</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Yes, I would, Mrs Rehana Salam replid.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Oh! Good, exclaimed Rina, Then Ill show you everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">But I especially want to show you our eggplants.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">They look like lovely green balls now.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">So the next day, Mrs Salam went to her daughters school and Rina and her friends showed her round the school garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">First she saw the new bamboo fence.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Then she saw the scarecrow as well as the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">You and your teacher have worked very hard, Mrs Salam said.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">And now your school garden looks like a paradise!</sent>
				<sent id ="186">But you havent seen our eggplants yet, said Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">They look Lovely!</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Come and see! Rinas and her friends took Mrs Salam to see the eggplants.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Here they are, said Rina, and she pointed to the eggplants, but the lovely green balls were gone.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Rina and her friends were shocked.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Someones stolen them!</sent>
				<sent id ="192">We must tell Mr Ahmed at once.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">When Mr Ahmed came, he was shocked too.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Well have to ask Bahadur, he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">He may know something about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Mr Ahmed : Ah, Bahadur.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Look, all the eggplants have gone.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">What do you know about it?</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Bahadur : Nothing, sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Perhaps some cows or goats have eaten them.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Shahid : That's not possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">We've got a fence.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Bahadur : Well, maybe some birds have eaten them.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Mrs Salam : That's impossible too.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">They've got a scarecrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Bahadur : How about insects?</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Mr Ahmed : No, Bahadur.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The eggplants haven't been eaten by cows, goats, birds or insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">They've been stolen!</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Mrs Salam : By a thief!</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Rina : We can protect our garden from animals with a fence and birds with a scarecrow .</sent>
				<sent id ="212">But how can we protect it from thieves?</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Mr Ahmed : Well, there is on thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">It's called honesty.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Once upon a time there lived a poor man called Suruj Ali.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">He was an honest, hardworking man and looked after a large mango orchard.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The owner of the orchard, Hamidur Rahman,was very rich man.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">One day some of Hamidur Rahman's friends came to visit him.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">It was during the summer season when the mangoes were ripe.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">So Hamidur Rahman asked Suruj Ali to pick some of the ripe mangoes and give them to his friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Suruj Ali went to the orchard and carefully picked some nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Then he gave them to his master.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">When Hamidur Rahman and his friends started eating them, hamidur Rahman said, These mangoes dont taste sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">How can we eat them?</sent>
				<sent id ="225">So he called Suruj Ali back and asked him to take the sour mangoes away and bring some sweet ones from his orchard.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">While Mr Anis was telling his story, Mrs Rehana Salam, Bahandur and the Class 8 student listened attentively.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">When he finished, Mrs Salam said, Thank you, Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">You can certainly tell excellent stories!</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Now we all know about honesty and that it's best policy.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Yes, and I think Bahadurs just like Suruj ali !</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Because he looks after our school garden!</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Everyone turned to look at Bahadur, but he wasn't smiling.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">He opened his mouth to say something, but nothing came out.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">What's the matter, Bahadur?' asked the student, 'Are you feeling sick?</sent>
				<sent id ="235">You look as pale as a ghost!</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Okay, everyone, said Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Yes can go now .Its been very nice seeing you, Mrs Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Thanks for coming to see our school garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">I hope you've enjoyed looking around it.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">oh , yes.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Thanks you very much , Mr Ahmed , Mrs Salam replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">She knew that Mr Ahmed wanted to discuss something with bahadur alone .</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Come along Rina, she said.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Mr Ahmed :Now, Bahadur.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">While I was telling the story, you were getting more and more nervous and now you're looking very pale.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">What's the matter?</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Bahadur : Nothing, sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Mr Ahmed : There's definitely something, Bahadur.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">What is it?</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Bahadur : Please pardon me, sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">I stole the eggplants last night.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Mr Ahmed :Yes, Bahadur, I knew it was you, but I didn't want to embarrass you in front of Mrs Salam and the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Bahadur :Thank you, sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">I'm very grateful and I'm really very sorry.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">I'll never do such a thing again in my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Mr Ahmed : I believe you, Bahadur, and I'm glad you've been honest with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Because you've told me the truth, I won't tell anyone about this.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">It was a nice warm evening in March.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Anwar was reading a book in his bedroom at home,when his mother called him.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">When Anwar went downstairs, he found his mother with some visitors in the living room.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Some people have come to see your father, Mrs Latifa Begum explained.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Look after them for a few moments, dear, while I go and get your father, she said.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Then she left the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Suddenly Anwar felt embarrassed and shy.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">All his father's visitors were grown ups.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Im not an adult, because Im only thirteen, Anwar thought to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">So how can I look after all these grown-up people?</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Anwar felt he had to say something interesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Im not a child and in my class at school we talk about many interesting things, he thought.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Anwar smiled at the visitors, but he felt confused.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Im neither a grown-up nor a child, he thought.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">So what am I? Anwar didnt know.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">He felt strange and couldn't think of anything to say.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">So he said nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">After a few minutes, his mother returned with his father and Anwar was able to relax again.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Nobody looked at him any more and he could enjoy himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Now he felt neither embarrassed nor shy.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">But Ill discuss my feelings with my mother some time, Anwar thought to himself, Because I still feel confused about them.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">I know, he said.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">They liked to help Anwar with his work too.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">I learn a lot from my parents, as well as from school.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">His father and mother were also fond of reading.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Not everyone is as lucky as you, Anwar, Mrs Ayesha Amin once told him at school.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Anwar enjoyed reading story books.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Anwar was lucky to have such helpful parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Anwar and his mother, Mrs Latifa Begum are talking to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Anwar : Mother, do you remember those visitors?</sent>
				<sent id ="288">They came here last Wednesday evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Mother : Yes, dear.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Anwar : Well, you asked me to look after them, but I felt shy and embarrassed.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Mother : Did you?</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Why? Anwar : Because I wasn't an adult like them.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Mother : Well, you're certainly not a child, Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Anwar : I know, mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">But if I'm neither an adult nor a child, what am I'? Mother : Well, you're a teenager.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Or, if you like, a young person.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Anwar : I see.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">So when will I become an adult?</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Mother : When you have more responsibilities, dear.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Anwar : What kind of responsibilities?</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Mother : Having a job and earning money, so you can look after other people well as yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">You know, you become an adult when you're 18. Luna : What responsibilities do you have at home, Rina?</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Rina : Oh, I look after the chickens and water the plants in our garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Sometimes I look after my young brother, Tunu, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">How about you, Luna?</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Luna : Well, I help my mother to clean the house and I also look after my young sister, Nova.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">And sometimes I help cook, too.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">2 Then ask and answer similar questions about your own responsibilities at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">3 Now write your dialogue out in your exercise book.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">You can finish it for homework.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">One afternoon, when Anwar and Kashem were walking home together, they noticed a small crowd near the college pond.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">What are all those people looking at? asked Kashem.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">I don't know, replied Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Let's go and see.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">So the two boys walked quickly over to the crowd of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">They were all looking at an old lady.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Look, said Kashem.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">There's been an accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">That poor old lady's fallen down and hurt herself.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">What shall we do?</sent>
				<sent id ="321">I know her,said Anwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">It's Rina's grandmother!</sent>
				<sent id ="323">you stay here and I'll run to Rina house and call her mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">She'll be home from work by now.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">It's not far from here.So Anwar ran off and soon reached Rina's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Mrs Salam was reading a magazine, when Anwar knocked on the door.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Hello, Anwar,said Mrs Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Why have you been running?</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Rina's grandmother just fallen over near the college pond and hurt herself!</sent>
				<sent id ="330">asked Mrs Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Yes, I'm afraid so, Anwar replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Shall we go and help her, Mrs Salam?</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Yes, of course, Mrs Salarn replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">I'll just write a short note for Rina and leave it with the house keeper.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Then we'll go.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">Rina told Tunu a true story about a young Bangladeshi girl and an English lady.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">It was an interesting story, so Tunu didn't worry about his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Thy story lasted for about half an hour until their parents came home.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">When Rina finished, Tunu said, If you wrote your stories down, you'd become a famous writer.'</sent>
				<sent id ="340">When her parents returned together, Rina was surprised.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Where did you meet? she asked them.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">At the hospital, replied Rina's father.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">'I told Anwar to fetch your father from the office, Rinas mother explained.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">He and Kashem have been so helpful.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">And so have you, Rina, addedher father.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">In fact all you young people have behaved very responsibly today and we feel very proud of you.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">But hows grandmother?</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Did you take her to the hospital?</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Yes, shes at the hospital now.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">She hurt herself quite badly, so she'll probably have to stay there for about a week,' her mother replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">If you visited her on your way home from school, Rina, shed be very happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Of course I will, Rina replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Ill visit her every day!</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Mrs Siddiqua Murshed was very happy when Rina and her friend .</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Luna, visited her at Nurpur Hospital after school.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Anwar and kashem also visited her on their way home from school.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Everyone at their school knew about Mrs. Murshed's accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Mrs Ayesha Amin spoke to her class about her young heroes.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">I feel very proud to have such grown-up young people in my class, she said.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">You have behaved very responsibly.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">If there were more people in the world like you, I think the world would be a much better place!</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Mr Anis Ahmed told Rina to take some fresh flowers and vegetables from the school garden for her grandmother.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Would you and Luna like to use your baskets? he asked.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Mr Ahmeds very kind teacher, Mrs Salam said.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Would you like to give him some of our nice, fresh eggs, Rina?</sent>
				<sent id ="366">Oh yes, Rina replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">Thats a very good idea!</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Shall I give him some tomorrow?</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Yes, if weve got enough, her mother replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">Ill remind you about it in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">A Talk about the pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Then listen to the story and number the picture in the correct order from 1 to 6.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">A Talk about the picture and read the story.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Continued from Lesson 8.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">After school that day, Rina and Luna went to see Rina's grandmother at Nurpur Hospital.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Mrs Siddiqua Murshed was sitting up in bed talking to Rina's mother, when they arrived .</sent>
				<sent id ="377">How are you feeling, grandmother?</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Oh, much better, thank you, Mrs Murshed replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">But you dont look as cheerful as usual, Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">What's the matter?' Rina told her grandmother and mother about her accident that morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Oh, why am I always so clumsy?</sent>
				<sent id ="382">Im always so clumsy?</sent>
				<sent id ="383">I'm always falling over and dropping things!' Rina exclaimed.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">'Don't worry, dear,' her mother said.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">You can collect some more eggs and give them to Mr Anis Ahmed tomorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">We all have accidents sometimes.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Look at your poor grandmother!.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Exactly, agreed Rinas grandmother.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">People can fall over at any age, but youre lucky to be so young, Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">If you were as old as me, you'd have broken bones as well as broken eggs!</sent>
				<sent id ="391">Did you break your bones, Aunty?</sent>
				<sent id ="392">Well, no, I didnt, Luna.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">I was very lucky this time and am feeling much better now.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">I shall return home quite soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">Then I shall ask you and those kind boys to visit my house.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">I want to thank you all for helping me.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">So they were able to look after her.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">After a week, she felt much better and was able to return home.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">So I felt very upset when I heard about her accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">Im very fond of my grandmother.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">She lives with my aunt and uncle in a village near here.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">I wanted to help as much as possible, so I visited her every day in Nurpur Hospital.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">She's always very kind to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">After about a week, Mrs Siddiqua Murshed left Nurpur Hospital and returned home.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">After a few more days, she started to feel strong again.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Then she thought, I would like to invite those young people and their parents for a celebration.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">They've all been very kind to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">I would like to invite them for lunch and thank them.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">If I invited them during a school holiday, they would be able to come.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">So, during the next school holiday, Mrs Murshed invited Rina, her friends, and their parents to lunch.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">When Mrs Rehana Salam heard about her mother's celebration, she wanted to help.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">'Your grandmother and aunt will have to cook for a lot of people, she told Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">If we went carly, we could help them.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Yes, agreed Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Thats a good idea.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">So Rina and her mother went to Rina's grandmother's house early in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">On the way they stopped at the market to buy some things.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">Then they continued their journey by rickshaw.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Rina felt very happy and excited.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">A Talk about the picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Then read the dialogue and act it out.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Anwar and Kashem are going to Mrs Murshed's celebration together in a rickshaw.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">Anwar : Kashem, we've got Something else to Celebrate now.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Kashem : Really?</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Anwar : We're going to Dhaka!</sent>
				<sent id ="426">My father told me this morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Kashem : What did he say?</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Anwar : First he asked me, Why do you and kashem want to go there?</sent>
				<sent id ="429">So I answered, Kashem likes football and Im the captain of Class 8 team.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">If we watch an international match, we'll be able to play better.'</sent>
				<sent id ="431">Kashem : What did he say to that?</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Anwar : He said, Thats a very sensible reason.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Also you and Kashem have behaved very responsibly.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">You looked after Rina's grandmother very Well, so I think you're old enough now to look after yourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">And if I ask your mother and kashem's parents, I think they'll agree with me.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Kashem : And did they?</sent>
				<sent id ="437">Anwar : Yes, they did!</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Anwar and Kashem arrived at Mrs Siddiqua Murshed's house at half past twelve.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Half an hour later, the celebration started.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Everyone sat down and Mrs Murshed made a short speech .</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Thank you very much everyone for coming to my house today, Mrs Murshed began.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">I want you all to enjoy yourselves today, because this is a celebration.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">Before we have our lunch.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">I just want to say a few things to you all.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">As you all know, I had an accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">I fell down near the college pond and hurt myself quite badly.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">But now I've completely recovered.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">That's because of two young people here today, Anwar and Kashem.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">They were very kind and helped me.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">When young people behave responsibly like that, I feel very proud of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">While I was being taken to the hospital, my granddaughter, Rina, looked after her young brother, Tunu, all by herself.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">She told him a story.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">Then, when she and Luna came to visit me in hosipital, she told the story to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">It's about a very responsible young person like herself, and it's true.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">After lunch, you'll be able to hear Rina's story for yourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">I think we can all learn a lot from interesting stories like that.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">Im very grateful to all you young people for helping me to recover from my accident so quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">I think we can all feel proud of ourselves for having such responsible young people here.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Now let's enjoy this lovely lunch!' Rina is telling her story to her family and friends at her grandmother's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Salma listened to her brother who was talking with someone on the phone.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Hello, could I speak to someone called Janet Green?</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Rafiq asked nervously.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">Then he gave their address.When he finished, Salma felt very excited.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Was she there?</sent>
				<sent id ="465">she asked, Yes, replied Rafiq.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">And shes coming here now.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">While Salma and Rafiq were waiting for Janet Green to come, they told their mother about the lost bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Youve been a very honest girl Salma, and I feel very proud of you, her mother said .</sent>
				<sent id ="469">I think this British lady will be very happy with you.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">Then about twenty minutes later there was a knock on the door.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">Rafiq opened it and there was Mrs Green.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">Oh, Hello, she said.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">Im Janet Green .</sent>
				<sent id ="474">I think I spoke to you on the telephone about twenty minutes ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Yes, thats right, said Rafiq.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">Please come in, So Mrs Green went in and sat down.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Then Rafiq introduced Salam to Mrs Green.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">This is my younger sister, Salma, he explained Salma found your bag in the road and brought it here.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">Salma gave Mrs Green the bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">I think this is yours, she said shyly.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">Oh, thank you very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">Yes ,it is, Mrs Green replied.I felt so worried, but now Im really happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">Youve both been such very kind, honest people.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">Rina continues to tell her story to her family and friends at her grandmother's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">Would you like some tea?</sent>
				<sent id ="486">Salma asked Mrs Green, Oh yes please, replied Mrs Green.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">Thats very kind of you,.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">Then while Mrs Green drank the tea and ate some biscuits, She told Salma and Rafiq about her lost bag.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">My husband and I are on holiday in Bangladesh, she explained, This morning we wanted to go to the bank.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">We went in a rickshaw.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">Because it was very small, I put my bag behind me.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">After some time, I turned round to check it, but couldn't find it.</sent>
				<sent id ="493">But now all these things are with me again.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">So I'm really very grateful to you, Salma and to you too, Rafiq.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">You've both helped me more than I can say.</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Let me have your address so that I can keep in touch with you I'd also like to take some photographs.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">So Salma gave their address to Mrs Green and Mrs Green and took some photographs of Salma and Rafiq.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">Finally, she gave Salma a small presentation to Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">It was a book of stories.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">Mrs Ayesha Amin is teaching English to her Class 8 students at Nurpur High School.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">Mrs Amin : Does anyone know about a man called Robinson Crusoe?</sent>
				<sent id ="502">Rina : Yes, madam, I do.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">I read about him in my new story book.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">Mrs Amin : Good, Rina.</sent>
				<sent id ="505">Anyone else? (Seven more students put up their hands) Good.</sent>
				<sent id ="506">Quite a lot of you know about him.</sent>
				<sent id ="507">What happened to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="508">Shahid : He was shipwrecked on a desert island and lived alone on it for Several years.</sent>
				<sent id ="509">Mrs Amin : Yes.</sent>
				<sent id ="510">Would you be happy, if you lived all alone, nobody could quarrel with me and I'd feel free.</sent>
				<sent id ="511">Mrs Amin : That's interesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="512">What do you think, Sarah?</sent>
				<sent id ="513">Sarah : Well, I wouldn't be happy, because I'd feel lonely.</sent>
				<sent id ="514">Mrs Amin : Right.</sent>
				<sent id ="515">Both Sarah and Kishan have good reasons for their opinions.</sent>
				<sent id ="516">Now I want to tell you a story about a man like Robinon Crusoe.</sent>
				<sent id ="517">His name was Ruplal and he lived all alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="518">Let's see if he was happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="519">A long time ago in a small village near the jungle, there lived a young man called Ruplal.</sent>
				<sent id ="520">He lived with his family and worked on a farm, but he didn't like it there.</sent>
				<sent id ="521">It was a beautiful place, but there were a lot of problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="522">The village people were always quarrelling, so there was no peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="523">Ill either have to go and live alone in the jungle, or I'll go completely mad!</sent>
				<sent id ="524">I dont want to stay here one more day!</sent>
				<sent id ="525">So he collected his things and went to live by himself in the jungle.</sent>
				<sent id ="526">Ruplal made a nice little hut for himself in the jungle with wood, bamboo and reeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="527">There he lived in peace and quiet all by himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="528">Ah! How happy I am now, he thought to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="529">Then, one day after a few weeks, he discovered something strange.</sent>
				<sent id ="530">In his blanket there was a hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="531">Who made this hole?</sent>
				<sent id ="532">Rupall asked.He looked around him, but nobody replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="533">I don't understand .</sent>
				<sent id ="534">There's either somebody here, or the hole just made itself!'</sent>
				<sent id ="535">That night, while Ruplal was sleeping he heard a noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="536">Either someone or something was eating his blanket.</sent>
				<sent id ="537">Go away and leave me alone!</sent>
				<sent id ="538">Outside the moon was shining brightly and Ruplal saw something small.</sent>
				<sent id ="539">It was a mouse.</sent>
				<sent id ="540">Right he thought.</sent>
				<sent id ="541">Ill bring my cat here.</sent>
				<sent id ="542">Then Ill be able to sleep in peace?</sent>
				<sent id ="543">Now Ruplal was very busy in the jungle.</sent>
				<sent id ="544">He had to build a larger hut and he had to cook more food for his younger brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="545">He also had to look after his hut, cat and younger brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="546">I came here to find peace and quite , but now I have so many responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="547">Ruplal complained to his younger brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="548">why dont you share your responsibilities with someone?</sent>
				<sent id ="549">his younger brother suggested.</sent>
				<sent id ="550">You should go back to our village and find a wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="551">I agree, said Ruplal.</sent>
				<sent id ="552">I already have three companions.</sent>
				<sent id ="553">Why not have four?</sent>
				<sent id ="554">So Ruplal and his younger brother returned to their village and Ruplal spoke to his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="555">Why did you go and live in the jungle, Ruplal?</sent>
				<sent id ="556">his mother asked him.</sent>
				<sent id ="557">I wanted to live alone, mother, Ruplal replied, But you arent living alone, his father said.</sent>
				<sent id ="558">Your younger brother is living with you, and if you take a wife, you'll have children.</sent>
				<sent id ="559">Am I right, Ruplal?' Yes, father, you are Ruplal replied.</sent>
				<sent id ="560">Well, if you cant live alone in the jungle, you should come back to your family, Ruplal, said his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="561">Accept your responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="562">Dont run away from them.</sent>
				<sent id ="563">Come and share them with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="564">thank you, mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="565">Youre right, said Ruplal.</sent>
				<sent id ="566">So Ruplal returned to the jungle, collected his cat and cow and went back to live in his village.</sent>
				<sent id ="567">Ive learnt a good lesson, he told his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="568">Living here wasnt easy for me, but living alone is even more difficult!</sent>
				<sent id ="569">It wasn't tiger.</sent>
				<sent id ="570">In fact it's a dangerous place with many wild animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="571">One of them visited Ruplal's hut during the night.</sent>
				<sent id ="572">He wanted to be comfortable, but the jungle isn't a comfortable a place.</sent>
				<sent id ="573">It was only a little mouse!</sent>
				<sent id ="574">Ruplal was a brave man to live in the jungle, but it was difficult for him to live alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="575">But he was lucky.</sent>
				<sent id ="576">Anwar has retuned home from school and is talking with his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="577">Father : Have you had a good day at school, Anwar?</sent>
				<sent id ="578">Anwar : yes, thank you, farther.</sent>
				<sent id ="579">Mrs Amin told us an interesting story about a man called ruplal.</sent>
				<sent id ="580">He wanted to live by himself in the jungle.</sent>
				<sent id ="581">Father : Why? Anwar : He thought he could find peace and quiet there.</sent>
				<sent id ="582">Father : And did he?</sent>
				<sent id ="583">Anwar : No, it was too uncomfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="584">Father : So what did he do?</sent>
				<sent id ="585">Anwar : He returned to his village.</sent>
				<sent id ="586">Father : Why did he leave it?</sent>
				<sent id ="587">He Should have stayed there and climbed a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="588">Anwar : How could he climb up a tree?</sent>
				<sent id ="589">He wasn't a monkey!</sent>
				<sent id ="590">Father : No, but if you climb a tree, you can find peace and quiet by yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="591">Anwar : Have you ever tried it, father?</sent>
				<sent id ="592">Father : ye, when I was younger, but now I'm too old.</sent>
				<sent id ="593">Why don't you try it some time?</sent>
				<sent id ="594">A nice tree's a good place to contemplate.</sent>
				<sent id ="595">Anwar : What does contemplate mean?</sent>
				<sent id ="596">Father : Think deeply about thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="597">Look, here's a poem about it.</sent>
				<sent id ="598">It's not too Difficult, so I'll read it to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="599">It's called 'Contemplation'.</sent>
				<sent id ="600">Now, I have something very exciting to tell you, Mrs Amin announced to her class one morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="601">Next month we are celebrating our Annual Cultural Week and Class 8 has been chosen to put on a play.</sent>
				<sent id ="602">How do you feel about that?</sent>
				<sent id ="603">All the students looked very happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="604">I thought you'd be keen,' she said.</sent>
				<sent id ="605">Could we put on a Shakespeare play, madam?</sent>
				<sent id ="606">His plays are very interesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="607">One of them has got a ghost in it!</sent>
				<sent id ="608">More than one actually, Kishan, and I agree.</sent>
				<sent id ="609">They are interesting, but they're not suitable for us, replied Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="610">Are they too difficult, madam?</sent>
				<sent id ="611">Yes Mina, and they're also too long', explanined Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="612">But look what Ive got here.</sent>
				<sent id ="613">Its a play written especially for us by Mr Anis Ahmed and its called The Ghost! Now, after school today.</sent>
				<sent id ="614">Mr Ahmed is coming to talk to us about his play.</sent>
				<sent id ="615">He'll explain everything to us then.</sent>
				<sent id ="616">So if you're interested, please remain in your classroom this afternoon after school for about ten minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="617">Mrs Ayesha Amin and Mr Anis Ahmed are talking to their Class 9 students after school.</sent>
				<sent id ="618">Good afternoon, students, said Mrs Amin, Im pleased so many of you are here.</sent>
				<sent id ="619">Now Mr Anis Ahmed is going to tell us about his play Thank you, Mrs Amin, said Mr Ahmed.</sent>
				<sent id ="620">My play is called The ghost and we are putting it on next month.</sent>
				<sent id ="621">There are seven characters and the headmaster has announced two prizes for the best actor and actress.</sent>
				<sent id ="622">So now, lets look at the list of characters,: Mr Ahmed showed the students his list.</sent>
				<sent id ="623">Now, as you can see, well need four actors and two actresses, but well also need some other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="624">We're putting on the play outside so we'll have to build a stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="625">I'll need with that too.</sent>
				<sent id ="626">What kind of stage?</sent>
				<sent id ="627">asked Mrs Amin.</sent>
				<sent id ="628">Something simple; the kind used in the villages, Mr Ahmed replied .</sent>
				<sent id ="629">Well build it in front of the school garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="630">But Mr Ahmed, said Ksiahn, I dont understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="631">Then plays called, The Ghost, but where is it?</sent>
				<sent id ="632">Well, the ghosts here, Mr Ahmed replied, and he pointed to the list of characters.</sent>
				<sent id ="633">But who is it?</sent>
				<sent id ="634">If youre staying tomorrow, youll find out!</sent>
				<sent id ="635">A village road.</sent>
				<sent id ="636">There should be a picture of banyan tree at the back.</sent>
				<sent id ="637">weird background music gradually becomes louder and louder.</sent>
				<sent id ="638">In the faint light a ghostly shape appears Up Left.</sent>
				<sent id ="639">The shape is covered with white cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="640">A bamboo frame has been fixed inside the cloth to make it tall.</sent>
				<sent id ="641">Kalim is seen Down Right with a bag in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="642">Kalim : (Trembling) Oh! No! No! God! (music becomes slower) La-i-la-ha-I- ll-al-lahu Muhammadur Rasulu-lah.</sent>
				<sent id ="643">(he goes on reciting).</sent>
				<sent id ="644">The shape slowly approaches, and reaches its hand , towered him.</sent>
				<sent id ="645">Music becomes louder, kalim is terribly scared, leaves the bag there and runs away.</sent>
				<sent id ="646">The stage is darkened.</sent>
				<sent id ="647">Only the vigorous laughter of the Ghost is heard: Ha! Ha! Ha! Night.</sent>
				<sent id ="648">Sana is reading by a lamp light.</sent>
				<sent id ="649">Loud knock at the door.</sent>
				<sent id ="650">Kalim : (beyond) Open the door.</sent>
				<sent id ="651">(knocks harder) Sana : He is going to break the door.</sent>
				<sent id ="652">Who is it?</sent>
				<sent id ="653">(opening) oh! Kalim, what happened?</sent>
				<sent id ="654">Kalim : (trebling) Water!</sent>
				<sent id ="655">First give me a glass of water o-o hooh-hooh!</sent>
				<sent id ="656">(sana gives a glass of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="657">Kalim empties the glassat one gulp) Ah He nearly killed me!</sent>
				<sent id ="658">Sana : Who? Kalim : The Gh-oo-u-st!</sent>
				<sent id ="659">The Ghost of the banyan tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="660">Sana : That Ghost again!</sent>
				<sent id ="661">(goes near the window, opens it and looks out) How is it that I don't find any ghosts in that tree!</sent>
				<sent id ="662">I looked for the Ghost several times.</sent>
				<sent id ="663">But nothing- I found nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="664">Kalim : Don't look at that tree at night, Sana.</sent>
				<sent id ="665">Close the window, please.</sent>
				<sent id ="666">(Sana closes the window, sits again and thinks for some time) Sana : That Ghost is doing a lot of harm to the villagers.</sent>
				<sent id ="667">Kalim : Yes! Yes!</sent>
				<sent id ="668">The other day Keramat told me.</sent>
				<sent id ="669">He was so frightened that he left his bag of rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="670">He was returning home from the bazaar.</sent>
				<sent id ="671">Sana : Keramat also told me.</sent>
				<sent id ="672">But I did not believe him at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="673">But a few days later the Ghost frightened my cousin too.</sent>
				<sent id ="674">The poor man lost his basket of mangoes and ran for life.</sent>
				<sent id ="675">(suddenly loudly) No, no!</sent>
				<sent id ="676">He must be stopped!</sent>
				<sent id ="677">Sajeda : (entering) Who, brother?</sent>
				<sent id ="678">(not seeing kalim) Why are you shouting at this hour of night?</sent>
				<sent id ="679">You will wake father.</sent>
				<sent id ="680">Don't you remember he has a bad fever?</sent>
				<sent id ="681">He's just gone to bed.</sent>
				<sent id ="682">Sana : I'm sorry, Shajeda.</sent>
				<sent id ="683">Look at Kalim.</sent>
				<sent id ="684">He was also caught by the Ghost.</sent>
				<sent id ="685">Sajeda : (looks at kalim nods helplessly) O that Ghost!</sent>
				<sent id ="686">He should be taught a good lesson.</sent>
				<sent id ="687">Kalim : But he is dangerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="688">Sana : We could be more dangerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="689">Do you agree that we should stop the devil?</sent>
				<sent id ="690">Sajeda : Yes.</sent>
				<sent id ="691">Sana : Good.</sent>
				<sent id ="692">Then tomorrow I am going to ask my friends to come here.</sent>
				<sent id ="693">We will see- Kalim : See whatever you like, but don't tell my name.</sent>
				<sent id ="694">Sana : (to kalim) You too come here tomorrow night at this hour, ha? Kalim : No, no!</sent>
				<sent id ="695">I don't want my rice back.</sent>
				<sent id ="696">Sana : You are a amn, kalim.</sent>
				<sent id ="697">Why are you trembling?</sent>
				<sent id ="698">My friends will be with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="699">So man, Come tomorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="700">Kalim : Tomorrow is tomorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="701">Take me home please!</sent>
				<sent id ="702">It's dark outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="703">Sajeda : OK, Kalim.</sent>
				<sent id ="704">I'll bring a lantern, (she goes in) Sana : I'll bring a lathi for you.</sent>
				<sent id ="705">(about to goin) Kalim : No,no!</sent>
				<sent id ="706">Don't go! (sana stops .</sent>
				<sent id ="707">sajeda comes with a lantern.</sent>
				<sent id ="708">He goes in) Sajeda : Perhaps you were taking the rice for your supper.</sent>
				<sent id ="709">(Kalim nods) What will you eat tonight then?</sent>
				<sent id ="710">(Kalim looks vacantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="711">Sana comes with two lathis) Wait a minute, brother.</sent>
				<sent id ="712">(she goes in hurriedly.</sent>
				<sent id ="713">Sana gives a lathi to kalim and takes the lantern in one hand and the other lathi in another.</sent>
				<sent id ="714">Sajeda enters with about a kg. of rice wrapped in a picee of cloth .)</sent>
				<sent id ="715">Sajeda : (giving the rice to kalim) For your supper.</sent>
				<sent id ="716">(Kalim takes the bundle gratefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="717">Sana and kalim go out.</sent>
				<sent id ="718">Sajeda looks at them.)</sent>
				<sent id ="719">Evening Sana's room.</sent>
				<sent id ="720">Sana, his friends Tareq and Malek, his sister Sajeda and her friend Rowshan are discussing.</sent>
				<sent id ="721">Rowshan : I think it will be too daring to go to catch the Ghost at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="722">Tareq : And you can't catch the Ghost.</sent>
				<sent id ="723">A ghost does not have any body like yours or mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="724">It is all spirit.</sent>
				<sent id ="725">Sana : Many people have seen the Ghost with their own eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="726">It must have a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="727">Tareq : The body of a ghost is an illusion, my grandfather said.</sent>
				<sent id ="728">And it can vanish whenever it wants to.</sent>
				<sent id ="729">Rowshan : I think Tareq is right.</sent>
				<sent id ="730">Since it can be invisible, it can do us great harm.</sent>
				<sent id ="731">Sana : What do you think, Malek?</sent>
				<sent id ="732">Malek : I don't believe in ghosts.</sent>
				<sent id ="733">Father says there's no ghost- it's only our imagination.</sent>
				<sent id ="734">We imagine that there may be a ghost in a particular palce and we see the ghost there.</sent>
				<sent id ="735">Sajeda : but what?</sent>
				<sent id ="736">Malek : But I cannot disbelieve it when a grown up man like Keramat says that he has the Ghost with his own eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="737">However I feel curious to see what kind of ghost the Ghost of the banyan tree actually is.</sent>
				<sent id ="738">Tareq : Your curiosity may be the cause of even our death.</sent>
				<sent id ="739">Rowshan : yes, ghosts often frighten people to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="740">Sana : Look, look!</sent>
				<sent id ="741">This Ghost seems to be different from other ghosts.</sent>
				<sent id ="742">Rowshan : How?</sent>
				<sent id ="743">Sana : The Ghost attacks only a lonely passer-by with a bag or basket of something- rice, wheat, fruit, fish , etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="744">Tareq : What are you suggesting?</sent>
				<sent id ="745">Sana : I am suggesting that this Ghost is needy.</sent>
				<sent id ="746">It frightens a lonely person to take his bag or basket away.</sent>
				<sent id ="747">Nobody found a bag or a basket undr the banyan tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="748">The Ghost takes them all, (pause) why?</sent>
				<sent id ="749">Tareq : Why? Sana : It needs food.</sent>
				<sent id ="750">Tareq : Come on.</sent>
				<sent id ="751">Ghosts do not need to eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="752">Sana : That's why this Ghost is different from others Malek : is he a thief then?</sent>
				<sent id ="753">Tareq : A thief! Sana : May be.</sent>
				<sent id ="754">Tareq : It's interesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="755">Rowshan : yes, very interesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="756">Sana : Let's go and see then what it is.</sent>
				<sent id ="757">Sana : No but!</sent>
				<sent id ="758">And let me tell you, you need not fear anything because I'll take a lathi, and you, everybody will take one.</sent>
				<sent id ="759">I'll go near the Ghost.</sent>
				<sent id ="760">Tareq and Malek, you will hide yourselves in the bushes on the sides of the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="761">You will come to me only when I'll cry once.</sent>
				<sent id ="762">Sajeda and Rowshan.</sent>
				<sent id ="763">You will stay here.</sent>
				<sent id ="764">In case there's any trouble I'll cry twice.</sent>
				<sent id ="765">Then you call father and the neighbors and come to the spot.</sent>
				<sent id ="766">Sana, Tareq and Maled are on the road.</sent>
				<sent id ="767">Sana is dressed as an elderly villager.</sent>
				<sent id ="768">Both Tareq and Maled are dressed in black.</sent>
				<sent id ="769">Both of them have a torch each.</sent>
				<sent id ="770">Sana : (carrying a bag with his lathi) You stay here quietly.</sent>
				<sent id ="771">Tareq : How long shall we in the dark?</sent>
				<sent id ="772">(The Ghost does not speal.</sent>
				<sent id ="773">It moves towards Sana and reaches its hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="774">makes nasal sounds to frighten Sana) Stop your game.</sent>
				<sent id ="775">I know who are you.</sent>
				<sent id ="776">(Sana give a cry.</sent>
				<sent id ="777">Tareq and Malek rush in and encircle the Ghost.</sent>
				<sent id ="778">Malek is ready to strike.</sent>
				<sent id ="779">Tareq is still afraid.</sent>
				<sent id ="780">The Ghost stands still) No, don't do that.</sent>
				<sent id ="781">Focus the torchs.(they</sent>
				<sent id ="782">do so) Now show your face and take off your things!</sent>
				<sent id ="783">Or, we'll kill you.(Sana</sent>
				<sent id ="784">holds his lathi up.</sent>
				<sent id ="785">Malek is ready to strike) Hurry up!</sent>
				<sent id ="786">THe Ghost takes off a piece of cloth from the upper part of his body.</sent>
				<sent id ="787">a bamboo frame is discovered).</sent>
				<sent id ="788">Sana and Malek : A-ha!</sent>
				<sent id ="789">That made you so tall.</sent>
				<sent id ="790">Now take it off.</sent>
				<sent id ="791">(The Ghost takes off the frame and all three recognise him).</sent>
				<sent id ="792">All : (Surprised) Keramat!</sent>
				<sent id ="793">It is you!</sent>
				<sent id ="794">Keramat : (crying) O forgive me.</sent>
				<sent id ="795">I'll never do it in my life.</sent>
				<sent id ="796">(He goes on his knees before Sana) Tareq : Forgive!</sent>
				<sent id ="797">I'll kill you.</sent>
				<sent id ="798">(goes to strike) Sana : (to Tareq) Hold! Hold! (to Keramat) You must come with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="799">Malek : You must show your ugly face to the villagers.</sent>
				<sent id ="800">Tareq : Let us paint his face with lime and tar and make him a real ghost and show him to the villagers.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
