<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-genSci-21</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.084</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">226</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3135</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1063</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t137">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The structural and functional unit of all living things is cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Each cell requires oxygen and nutrient for survival.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Besides, hormones are required for growth and development of the living body.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Different organic functions within the cell generate some waste products.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Just as the cells require oxygen, nutrients and hormones to function, the cells require to get rid of the waste products too.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">The skin, lungs, and kidney excrete the waste products.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Hence, it is seen that conveyance is required among the different systems of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">This conveyance is done by the circulatory system in collaboration with other systems.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Blood, heart, arteries, veins, lymph and lymphatic altogether form the circulatory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Blood circulatory system or the cardiovascular system in humans comprises of the heart, blood, and blood vessels.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">They transport oxygen and nutrients to organs and tissues throughout the body and carry away waste products.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Blood and its Components: When there is a cut or injury, the red coloured fluid that comes out of the body is the blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Blood is a specialised fluid connective tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Plasma: About 55 percent of the blood is composed of a liquid known as plasma.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Plasma is usually light yellow in colour due to the proteins dissolved in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Plasma consists mainly of water, which is about 90 percent.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The blood cells are suspended in plasma.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Plasma also contains albumin, prothrombin, fibrinogen, globulin, glucose, fat globules, mineral salt, urea, sodium, potassium, iron, lead, hormone, antibody, carbondioxide and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Serum is the clear yellowish fluid that remains as the liquid portion of blood after clotting has taken place.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Before clotting occurs, the liquid of the blood is called plasma.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Oxygen carrier: The haemoglobin in the erythrocytes acts as the vehicle that carries oxygen from the lungs to all parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Carbon dioxide carrier: The carbon dioxide produced as a waste product by the cells is carried by the blood to the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Nutrient carrier: The digested food products are carried by the blood stream to all the cells of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Red blood cells: The red blood cells form about 45 percent of the blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">They are usually described as minute bi-concave disc.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">It has no nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">A red blood cell is composed predominantly of a protein, and an iron compound called haemoglobin.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Haemo globin gives the blood its red colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">When the haemoglobin content of the red blood cell decreases, the condition is called anaemia.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Red blood cells are produced in the bone marrow and the life span of one cell is 120 days or 4 months.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">White blood cells: They are bigger in size than the erythrocytes.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">They vary in form and size, have nucleus, contain no haemoglobin, and are essentially colour less.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">They are much less in number compared to the red blood cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The white blood cells are produced in the spleen and bone marrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Platelets: The smallest cell in the blood is the platelet, which is produced in the red bone marrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">They vary in shape round, oval, spherical and are found in bunches.Platelets do not have nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">They begin the process of coagulation, or forming a clot.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Body defence: The blood also contains substances, which protect the body against certain diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The leukocytes are able to attack and destroy the micro-organisms that cause diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Hence, they are the defence force of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Body temperature: The flow of the blood helps keep the temperature of the body uniform.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Hormone carrier: The blood caries the secretions of the endocrine, or ductless glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Blood clotting: When there is haemorrhage, the platelets set in the clotting process and stop bleeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">There are three kinds of blood vessels'arteries, capillaries, and veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Artery: An artery is a vessel that carries blood from the heart to all the parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">These are thick-walled vessels that do not collapse when empty, and do not have valves.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">They usually carry oxygenated blood, except for pulmonary artery that carries deoxygenated blood to the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The capillary blood vessel is simply a tube lined by a single layer of cells, the endothelium, which facilitates the exchange of gases.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Veins: The blood vessels that carry the blood from the whole body to the heart are called the veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The capillaries gradually reunite and increase in size to form veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The veins are less thick-walled than the arteries and collapse when empty.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">They have valves to allow the blood to flow towards the heart only.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">They usually carry deoxygenated blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Only the pulmonary veins carry the oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">It is about the size of a closed fist.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The heart is made primarily of muscle tissue that contracts rhythmically to propel blood to all parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">A tough, double-layered membrane known as the each other when the heart beats.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The pericardium protects the heart from heat and pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The human heart has four chambers.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The two upper chambers are the right and left atria, which receive blood from the whole body through the veins.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The two lower chambers are the right and left ventricles, which are the powerful pumping chambers.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">They pump blood to the whole body through the arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The right and left sides of the heart are separated from each other by a wall of tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The atria are smaller in size than the ventricles.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Innermost lining of the heart is the endocardium which lines all the chambers of the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Each side of the heart pumps blood through pericardium surrounds the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The inner layer of the pericardium, known as the epicardium, rests directly on top of the heart muscle.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The outer layer of the pericardium is attached to the sternum and other structures in the chest cavity and helps hold the heart in place.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The right side of the heart pumps oxygen-poor blood to the lungs, while the left side of the heart pumps oxygen-rich blood to the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The atria are smaller in size than ventricles.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Circulation of Blood through Heart: Openings into the right atrium are two large veins, the superior vena cava, and the inferior vena cava.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">These veins bring back blood from the whole of the body, except the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The right ventricle is separated from the right atrium by the tricuspid valve, which is formed of three triangular flaps or cusps.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The right ventricle has a much thicker wall than the right atrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Leading from the right ventricle is a large blood vessel known as the pulmonary artery, which carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The opening is guarded by the semi-lunar pulmonary valve that prevents blood from flowing back into the right ventricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Into the left atrium open the pulmonary veins, which brings oxygenated blood from the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">It communicates with the left ventricle through the mitral or bicuspid valve, which allows the blood to flow from left atrium to left ventricle only.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">The left ventricle is the thickest-walled cavity of the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The largest artery in the arises from the left ventricle.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">The opening is guarded by a semilunar aortic valve.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">The opening of the veins that bring blood to the heart is not guarded by valves.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The alternate contraction and relaxation of the atria and ventricles of the heart propel the blood throughout the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">As the heart relaxes, blood flows from the veins into the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The blood from the superior and inferior venae cavae flow into the right atrium, and blood from the pulmonary veins into the left atrium.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">When the atrium contracts they force the blood they receive into the ventricles through the tricuspid and mitral valves.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Then the ventricles contract.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">This closes the tricuspid and mitral valves and forces the blood into the arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The pulmonary circulation carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs where it gives off the carbon dioxide and receives oxygen to be oxygenated.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">This oxygenated blood is then passed into the systemic circulation through the left ventricle and aorta.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">In short, arteries carry blood from the heart to all parts of the body, and veins return the blood to the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The oxygen from the blood is retained in the cells and carbon dioxide is passed to the blood at the cellular level.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">This deoxygenated blood is then carried by the vanae cavae to the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">And the cycle goes on.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Rheumatic fever: Rheumatic fever is characterised by fever and pain, tenderness, redness, and swelling of the joints.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Rheumatic fever can cause inflammation of the heart and damage to the heart valves (endocarditis).</sent>
				<sent id ="97">This strain on the heart muscle causes rheumatic heart disease, which though occurs in childhood may cause death in middle or later life.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">As a result the person may be paralysed.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The patient may become unconscious.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The paralysed part becomes non-functional.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Some patients cannot talk.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Excitement and tension may cause the condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Coronary thrombosis: The artery that supplies blood to the heart is called the coronary artery.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Sometimes, there is deposition of lipid in the walls of the coronary artery, which hampers the blood supply to the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Narrowing of the coronary artery decreases blood flow to the cardiac muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">This leads to pain in the chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The condition is called coronary thrombosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">It may cause sudden death.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">High blood pressure: Blood pressure is the pressure of circulating blood against the walls of the arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Due to lipid deposition in the walls of the arteries the lumen is narrowed, which naturally leads to increased pressure in the arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">This condition is called high blood pressure or hypertension.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Problems arising due to high blood pressure: The arteries in the body gradually lose their elasticity and become stiff.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">This may cause clotting of blood within the arteries.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Measures to prevent heart disease: A regulated lifestyle goes a long way to prevent heart disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Respiration is the process in which cells produce the energy they need to survive.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">In cellular respiration, cells use oxygen to break down the sugar glucose to produce energy, carbon dioxide and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Energy is required for all metabolic processes.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Energy is stored in food.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Respiratory Organs: The organs that take part in the total process of respiration comprise the respiratory system.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Nose and Nostrils: The two nostrils are the external opening of the nose, which lead into the nasal fossae.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The nasal fossae open behind as a vertical slit on either side of the nasopharynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">The two nasal fossae are separated from each other by a vertical septum.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">The margins of the nostrils are usually lined with a number of stiff hairs that project across the openings.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The nasal fossae are lined by mucus.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The hairs together with the mucus serve to arrest the passage of foreign substances, such as dust and small insects, and thus protect the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Nasopharynx: The upper part of the pharynx behind the nasal cavity is the nasopharynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The air enters the pharynx through the nasopharynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Larynx: The pharynx continues down as two tubes.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The front tube has cartilaginous walls, and so is kept always open; this is the beginning of the windpipe, and is called the larynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Within the larynx, or voice box, are the vocal cords.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The vocal cords vibrate when air is passed between them, so the larynx is also called the voice box.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Trachea: Trachea is the part of the air passage between the larynx and bronchi.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">It is formed of smooth muscles and several ring shaped cartilage.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Alveolus: After the trachea enters the thoracic cavity it divides into the right and left bronchus, which enter the right and left lung respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Within the lungs each bronchus divides repeatedly and eventually narrow down to tubes called bronchioles.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">These divide further into even narrower tubes, called alveolar ducts.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Each alveolar duct ends in a grape-like cluster of thin-walled sacs, called alveoli (singular: alveolus).</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The alveoli are lined by a single layer of cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Lungs: Each lung is formed of bronchus, bronchioles, alveoli, artery, vein, capillaries, and so on.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The right and the left lungs are situated on either side of the heart within the chest or thoracic cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The lung is covered by a two layered membrane, the pleura.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The right lung is slightly bigger than the left lung.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The lung is light pink coloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">When the lungs expand, air enters the lung; and when it contracts air is expelled from the lung.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Below the lungs is the diaphragm that separates the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The up and down movement of the diaphragm helps in respiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Inspiration: The lungs themselves have no muscle tissue.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Their movements are controlled by the rib cage and the diaphragm.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">As a result of these changes, the chest cavity expands.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Because the lungs are attached to the chest cavity, they also expand and oxygen rich air flows into the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This oxygen passes into the blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Expiration: In expiration the muscles that lift the rib cage and lower the diaphragm relax.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">As a result, the rib cage and the diaphragm return to their original positions, and the lung contract with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">With each contraction of the lungs the air inside is forced out.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">The air that is passed out contains carbon dioxide that diffuses into the alveolar air from the blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">This exchange of gases occurs between the alveoli and capillaries within the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The process of breathing is generally divided into two phases, inspiration and expiration.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">In inspiration, air is moved into the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">In expiration, air is forced out of the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Internal respiration occurs in the mitochondria of the cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">It is then carried by the red blood cells in the arteries to all parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">As the blood vessels reach an organ it again becomes capillaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Here, the oxygen is released from the oxyhaemoglobin, which diffuses first into the interstitial fluid and thence into the tissue cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In the blood, the carbon dioxide is transported in the form of bicarbonate to the lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">In the lungs the carbon dioxide is released from the bicarbonate and passed to the alveoli.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">When the lungs contract, the alveolar air is passed out of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Tuberculosis: Tuberculosis is an infectious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Anybody at anytime may be affected by the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Cause: The disease is caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, a rod-shaped bacterium.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Symptoms of tuberculosis include coughing, chest pain, shortness of breath, loss of appetite, weight loss, abdominal pain, evening rise of fever, chills, and fatigue.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Pneumonia: In this condition there is infection and inflammation of the lung.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Excessive cold or respiratory tract infection may lead to pneumonia.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The condition is more common in children.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Cause: Pneumonia is usually caused by viruses or bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Commonly, the condition is caused by pneumococcus, a bacterium formally known as Streptococcus pneumonia.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Pleurisy: Inflammation of the pleura is pleurisy.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">It may be caused by bacterial or viral infection, or as a sequel to some other disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">When inflamed, pleural fluid collects between the two layers of pleura.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Prevention: The patient should follow the treatment as per physician's advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Bronchitis: This is an acute or chronic inflammation of the inner lining of any part of the bronchi and bronchial tubes.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Living in unhealthy conditions, inhaling dust polluted air, smoking cigarettes, and cold are some of the reasons that may cause bronchitis.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Cause: The disease is caused by bacterial or viral infection of the respiratory tract.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Asthma: Asthma is neither a contagious disease, nor is caused by any microbes.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">But the patients are susceptible to respiratory infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Cause: Allergens, such as allergic food, smoke, and dust, when enters the respiratory tract may cause asthma.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">In infants, common cold may cause symptoms of asthma.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Difference from other disease is that a seasonal variation is noted.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Symptoms of asthma increase in certain seasons round the year.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Smoking is one of the major causes of lung cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Smokers are at increased risk of developing lung and lip cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">People who do not smoke themselves but inhale tobacco smoke (passive smokers) are also at increased risk of developing cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Smoking is extremely harmful to bronchitis and asthma.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Children of parents who smoke may develop respiratory diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Smoking not only cause diseases, it also increases economic insolvency in a family.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The body system that co-ordinates the functions of all other systems is called the nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">It helps the body to respond to stimuli in order to keep harmony with the environments.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Humans are superior to all other beings because of the presence of a highly complex brain structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Brain is formed by nerve cells called neurone.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Neurone: The structural and functional unit of nervous system is the neurone.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">A neurone is the longest cell in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The neurone comprises of two parts: central cell body or soma, and branched treelike structures that extend from the soma.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Soma: The soma is the main part of the neurone.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Soma may be of different shapes, for example, round, oval, or star-shaped.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The soma is composed of cell membrane, cytoplasm and nucleus.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Branched treelike structures: Two different types of branched, treelike structures that extend from the soma are called dendrites and axon.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">There is usually dendrite plasma membrane cell body only one axon per neurone, and is the longest part of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Dendrites are multiple in number, and are shorter in length.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Information from other neurones, in the form of electrical impulses, enters the dendrites at connection points called synapses.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The information flows from the dendrites to the soma, where it is processed.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The output signal, a train of impulses, is then sent down the axon to the synapses of other neurones.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Cerebrum: The cerebrum is the main part of the human brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Most highlevel brain functions take place in the cerebrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The grey matter covers an underlying mass of fibres or axons called the white matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The cerebrum regulates most of the functions of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Cerebellum: It is located at the lower back of the cerebrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Its outer part is grey coloured and the inner part is white.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The cerebellum co-ordinates voluntary movements by fine-tuning command from the motor cortex in the cerebrum.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The cerebellum also maintains posture and balance by controlling muscle tone and sensing the position of the limbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Medulla oblongata: The long, stalk-like lowermost portion of the brain stem is called the medulla oblongata.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">It makes a gradual transition into the spinal cord at the foramen magnum.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">The medulla oblongata controls respiration, cardiovascular function, digestion, levels of alertness, and patterns of sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Cranial nerves: There are 12 pairs of cranial nerves extending from the cerebrum and brain stem.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The names and functions of few of these nerves are stated below.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Olfactory nerve: This carries the stimuli of smell to the brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Optic nerve: This carries the visual stimuli from the retina of eyes to the brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Auditory nerve: This carries the hearing and body equilibrium stimuli from the ears to the brain.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
