<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-genSci-10</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.819</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">254</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3388</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">930</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t125">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">We know that energy is the ability for doing work.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Energy has many different forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">It transforms from one form to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">For example, heat boils water and produces steam.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">This steam drives engine.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Railway engine carries men and materials from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Thus much work is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The steam engine converts heat energy into mechanical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Again rub your two palms strongly for a number of times.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">You will feel your palms getting hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Here, heat has been produced from mechanical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">When an electric bulb is switched on, the electric energy transforms into light and heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Therefore, heat has the ability of doing work.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Heat can be transformed into other forms of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Also many other forms of energy can be transformed into eat.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">So heat is a form of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The energy, which roduces the sensation of hot and cold, is known as heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Different scales are used to measure temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Kelvin scale is one of them; Lord Kelvin devised it.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The temperature in this scale is known as degree kelvin or simply kelvin and is denoted by k.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">In this scale of temperature ice melts at 273k and water boils at 373k.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">To measure a thing, proper unit is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">For heat also a definite quantity Heat 115 of heat is taken as the unit of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">This unit of heat is the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of one gram of pure water by one degree celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">This unit of heat is called calorie.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">So, if 1 gm of pure water takes 1 calorie of heat its temperature raises by 1 degree Celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Calorie is a small unit of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Therefore, sometimes kilo-calorie is used as unit of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">1 kilo-calorie is the amount of heat which can raise the temperature of 1 kilogram pure water by 1 degree celsius.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Calorie is not taken now a days as the unit of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The reason is, the scientists have decided that different forms of energy must not be measured in different units.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Rather all forms of energy be it heat, light, sound or electricity should be measured by a single unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">This single unit, which is called S.I unit is joule. 1 calorie of heat is equal to 4.2 joules.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">However in many fields calorie and kilo-callore are still used.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The food and nutrition specialists use kilo-calorie to measure energy in food.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">A normal adult requires 2200 calorie energy daily from food.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">A cup of milk contains 150 kilo-calories while an egg contains 100 kilo-calorie.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The heat required to raise the temperature of 1 gm of pure water by 1 degree calcius is called calorie.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The quantity of heat that can raise the temperature of 1 kilogram of pure water by 1 degree celcius.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Heat is measured by an instrument known as calorimeter.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">It is a vessel made of copper or aluminium.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">In this vessel hot and cold bodies (like cool water and hot iron) exchange heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">This exchange of heat is so regulated that no other heat from outside comes in or goes out of the mixture.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">All the heat given only by the hot body is taken in by the cold body.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">So no other exchange of heat is Heat increases the temperature of a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We have seen that the temperature of water increases by 1 degree celsius when 1 calorie of heat is given to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">You can do an experiment which will answer this question.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">In a beaker take 500 gm of water and in another take 500 gm of edible oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Both the water and oil will have the room temperature now.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Heat the water in beaker by a spirit lamp for 5 minutes and record its temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Now heat the oil beaker with the same spirit lamp for exactly five minutes.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Record the temperature of the oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">You will see that although the water and the oil were given the same quantity of heat the rise in temperature is higher for oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">So we conclude that if equal mass of different substances are given the same quantity of heat, their increase in temperature will be different.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Therefore, the increase in temperature of a substance depends on the material of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The property for which temperatures of different materials increase differently when equal amount of heat is given is called specific heat capacity or specific heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Specific heat is the amount of heat that is given to 1 unit mass of the substance to raise its temperature by 1 unit.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">In international unit, the heat required to raise the temperature of 1 kilogram substance to 1 degree Kelvin is called specific heat of the substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The unit of specific heat is joule per kilogram per Kelvin, in short, Joule/kg-k.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">From the table we see that specific heat of water is much higher than any other substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Generally the specific heat of liquids is much higher than the specific heat of solids.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The high specific heat of water can be used in various services.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">High value of specific heat means that large amount of heat would be required to raise the temperature of substance to a small extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">For this reason water is used to extinguish fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Besides, human body contains 65% to 70% water.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">So its specific heat is very high, that means much more heat is required to change our body temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">That is why, the temperature of our body does not change usually, it remains almost the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Higher specific heat of water helps us keep our body temperature unchanged.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Heat flows from places of higher temperature to places of lower temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">We have read this in Class seven.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The process of heat transfer is known as heat transmission.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Put one end of an iron rod on fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The other end will be heated soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">We boil water in a kettle by heating the bottom of the kettle.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">If you stand in front of fire, you will feel hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Did transmission of heat in these three examples follow the same process?</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Say you are sitting at the first row of your class.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Your friend sitting at the last row asked for your science book.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">How can you give him the book?</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Conduction: In case of iron or other metal made bars if one end is put to fire, the other end gets hot slowly.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Gradually the other end will be so hot that you would not be able to touch it.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Here we see that heat has reached from one end to the other end of the rod through the medium of iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">But the iron particles did not change their positions.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">This process of transmission of heat is called conduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">We know iron rod is made of many iron molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">These molecules are in a state of vibration.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The molecules on the end, which is on fire, takes heat energy and their vibration increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">But they do not change positions.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Hot Molecules pushes adjacent cold molecules and they are heated in turn and vibrates rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The molecules do not change their positions in this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">This process is similar to the first process of sending book to your friend as described above.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The book reached your friend from you through the medium of your class mates, although none of your friends had to change their positions.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Only you and your concerned friends moved hands in giving and taking the book.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">A medium is required for heat transfer by conduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">In a solid body heat usually flows by conduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Cold bodies in touch with hotter body are also heated by conduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Convection: Take a glass flask.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Put some potassium permanganate granules in it and they settle at the bottom of the flask.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">They will colour the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Now the flask is heated at the bottom by a gas burner.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">You will see that streams of colored water is rising upward through the middle from the flask from its bottom.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">You will see another stream flowing down the sides of the flask.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The reason of these movements of streams is that, water at the bottom gets heated, becomes hot and lighter and so moves upward.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">These streams of water are called convection current.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Thus hot water from the bottom carries heat above cold water which goes downward and gets itself heated and goes up again.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The process continues until all of the water is equally heated and attains the same temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">This process of heat transfer is called convection.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Only liquid and gas substances are heated by convection process.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">It is like you taking your book by yourself to your friend as described in the second example above.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">So, convection is the process of heat transfer where the heated particles themselves carry heat from the hotter to the colder part of any substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Radiation: We know that the sun is the main source of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">How does the heat come to the earth from the sun?</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The distance between the earth and the sun is 150 million kilometers, but the atmosphere is only extended up to 700-800 kilometer above earth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Beyond this there is empty through this space.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">At the last stage the heat passes through the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">But the heat from the sun does not warm the atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">We can know this as we see the atmosphere near the earth surface is hotter than that at a distance from the earth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">So without the help of any medium heat comes from the sun to the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">This process of heat transference is called radiation.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">It is like throwing the book to your friend where you did not take help of any medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">You feel warm when you stand near fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Heat from fire comes to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">But it does not come to you by conduction, as air can not conduct heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">It does not come to you by convection either.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Because heated particles go upward, not to the sides.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Therefore it is through radiation only that the heat reaches your body.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">In this process heat goes in all directions in a straight line with the velocity of light (velocity of light is 3 10 8m/s).</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Actually both heat and light come to earth from the sun by the same process.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Heat from the sun warms the earth surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Because of heat anything that obstructs heat becomes hot through heat absorption.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Different bodies have different capacities of heat absorption.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">A black body absorbs more heat than a white body Bodies radiated heat at all temperatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Radiated heat energy goes in all directions in the form of wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">This wave is called electromagnetic wave, which travels without the help of any medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Light, radiated heat, x-ray all are electro- magnetic waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">They all move with the speed of light and have all the characteristics of electro-magnetic wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It conducts heat rapidly.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">On the other hand a glass rod is not heated so quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Heat goes from the hot end to the colder end slowly and it takes time to be heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">What we understand from this is, conduction capacity of all matters is not the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Heat passes easily and quickly through some of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">They are called good conductors.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Iron, copper, aluminum, gold, silver, in fact, all metals are good conductors of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Again there are matters through which heat goes slowly;</sent>
				<sent id ="145">they are called bad conductors of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Glass, rubber, wood, paper, cotton, cork etc. and most liquids and gaseous substances are bad conductor.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">There are substances through which heat can not pass at all;</sent>
				<sent id ="148">they are called non- conducting materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">In reality there are no such materials that are perfectly non-conductors.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Very small quantity of heat can pass through them but it is so small that we take them as non-conductors of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Heat 121 Ebonite, polystyrene, thick wood etc. are examples of non-con uctors.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Of course vacuum does not conduct heat at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">So vacuum is a perfect non-conductor.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">We have seen that different materials conduct heat differently.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Heat passes through quickly through some matters and passes slowly through others.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Heat conduction depends on a special property of a substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">This property is the conductivity.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">In other words the special property of the matter on which the rate of heat conduction depends is called thermal conductivity.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The ability of the body to conduct heat through it is also called thermal conductivity.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It can be shown by an experiment that different matters conduct heat differently.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Take three rods (copper, iron, glass) of same length and same diameter.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Keep them on a tripod stand with one ends together and the other ends apart from one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Attach a pin to each rod to the scattered end by wax.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Now heat the ends which were kept together by a burner.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">After some time you will see that the wax at the other ends begins to melt and the pins are falling down one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Notice that the pins do not fall at the same time but one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The pin attached to copper falls at first, and then the pin attached to iron and finally the pin attached to glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The reason for this is, different matters conduct heat differently and copper has the greatest conductivity of the three while glass has the least.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The heat quickly goes to the other end of copper and melts wax, the pin falls.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The process is slower for iron and the slowest for glass.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">As because all metals are good conductors of heat, we use cooking utensils made of aluminum, copper or brass.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Heat applied to these pots goes quickly to food ingredients and cooking is done quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">So, only small amount of heat is wasted when cooking in metal pots.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The handles of saucepan, pressure cooker, electric iron, and electric kettle is made of ebonite.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">As ebonite is a bad conductor of heat, these handles are not heated when the metal parts are heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">So as we touch the handles we do not burnour hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Sometimes hay is used in making thatched roof of a house.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">In this roof air particles are confined.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Hay and air are bad conductors of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">That is why heat from the sun can not enter the room in summer and the house remains cool.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Again in winter the temperature outside is lower than the temperature inside the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Due to the thatched roof the heat inside the house can not go out and it keeps the room warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">To prevent ice from melting it is covered by sawdust.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Sawdust is bad conductor of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">We wear woolen clothes in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Woolen fibre is loosely woven so that air is confined within.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Wool and air being bad conductors of heat do not support heat to go outside from the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Thus woolen clothes keep the body warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">We say woolen cloth is warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">But the cloth itself is not warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">It prevents the body heat from going away.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">In summer we wear cotton clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Cotton fiber is tightly woven so that little air is confined within these clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Therefore cotton clothes conduct more heat than woolen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Heat goes out more easily and the body becomes cool when wearing cotton clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">We breathe out carbon-di-oxide gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">This makes the room warm.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">We expel the hot air outside and take in fresh cold air inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The process is known as ventilation.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">You may have seen small holes in the wall below the roof;</sent>
				<sent id ="201">these are called ventilators.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Hot air inside the room becomes lighter and goes out of the room through the ventilator and fresh cold air comes inside through the door.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Thus the flow of air is maintained by convection.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Those who study at night using hurricane lamp may have noticed that there are small pores at the top and below the glass chimney.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">When the hurricane lamp is lit, air from outside comes in through the pores below and supplies necessary oxygen required to burn the flame.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Thus convection helps the hurricane lamp to burn.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">In mills and factories the air inside becomes impure and hot, and this air is expelled out with the help of chimney through convection process.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">When radiated heat falls on a surface, a portion of it is reflected, a part is absorbed and the rest is transmitted through the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It depends on the nature of the body how much heat will be reflected, how much will be absorbed and transmitted.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">White coloured shining bodies reflect more and absorb less heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Black bodies with rough surface absorb more heat and reflect less.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Again bodies which absorb more radiate more too.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">We generally wear white or light coloured clothes in summer and black or dark coloured clothes in winter.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The reason for that is, white clothes reflect more heat and absorb less.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">So they do not get hot easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">On the other hand black and coloured clothes absorb more heat and get hot quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The inner wall of a tea cup is made white and shining.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">As a result it absorbs less heat and heat radiation is small too.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Again the reflected heat comes back to tea so tea remains hot for a longer period.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">You may have seen that sometimes the bottom of cooking utensils is coated with mud and burned black.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">This rough and black bottom absorbs more heat and this helps cooking quickly.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">If the bottom were white and shining it would reflect more heat and cooking will take a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Most of you have seen thermos flask and have used it.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">We can keep tea, milk, and soup hot for a certain time.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">You can cold water or icecream cold for some time too.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">British scientist James Dewar invented thermos flask.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The flask is a double walled glass vessel (fig 10.5).</sent>
				<sent id ="228">The space between the walls is evacuated and there is no air in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The outer surface of the inner wall and the inner surface of the outer wall is made shining by coating it with silver burnish.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The mouth of the vessel is closed with a cork of rubber or some non-conducting materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The double walled vessel is then placed on a spring in a metal casing.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The space between the metal case and glass vessel is then filled with some bad conductor like cotton or felt.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">It works well for the following reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The walls are made of glass and the mouth is closed with cork.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Glass and cork are bad conductors of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">So less heat can go out to or come in from the outer surrounding by conduction.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The space between the walls is made vacuum so that heat cannot go in or go out by convection.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">The walls are silver coloured and shining.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">As a result the loss of heat by radiation is minimum.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Thus, all the three possibilities by which heat may come in or go out have been minimized.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">These have made possible for hot things to remain hot and cold things to remain cold for a long time in a thermos flask.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">To live in this word plant and animal need energy Heat is a form of energy and we use heat in every day life.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">We get heat form the sun and from the food we take.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">The chemical energy of food is converted into heat energy which makes our body warm and gives us energy to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Again by burning wood, coal, gas and kerosene we get heat to use it for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">The motor car, train, steamer, launch, aeroplane etc are runs by engine, which requires energy in the form of heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">These engines are therefore called heat engines.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Heat engines convert chemical energy of fuel into heat from which we get mechanical energy and energy for movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">We apply heat to melt iron, copper, aluminium, glass etc. to make things of our daily needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Starting from needles to utensils and also many other things of our daily use are being made by melting iron, glass china clay etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The paper and pin you use are also made using the heat energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Heat is also used to dry wet clothes, paddy, jute etc and to iron clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Many other examples of using heat energy in our daily life may be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Can you give some more examples of using heat energy?</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
