<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-genSci-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.791</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">172</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2257</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">681</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t124">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">There are a lot of peculiar and various matters in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Actually all these diverse objects are composed of some fundamental substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The Indian philosophers also considered fire and sky as the fundamental substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">However, modern science has proved that fire or sky are not matters at all, and water, air and soil are not any fundamental substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The British scientist Cavendish proved that water is not an elementary substance; it is composed of two gaseous elements- oxygen and hydrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">You have learnt about the three states of matters solid, liquid and gaseous.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">In whatever states a matter exists, the scientists have divided the matters into two main categories such as element and compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Elements: An element is a substance which cannot be broken or split up by chemical analysis into two or more simple and dissimilar substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon, sulphur, copper, zinc, mercury, gold, silver etc. are the examples of elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Until now 111 elements have been discovered in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Out of these 92 elements occur in nature while the remaining elements have been artificially prepared by scientists in the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">At normal condition most of the elements are solid, 5 are liquids and 11 elements are gaseous.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Iron, copper, zinc, gold, silver, sulphur, aluminium, tin, carbon, phosphorous, silicon etc. are the examples of solid elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Mercury, Bromine, Gallium, Caesium and Francium are liquid elements while Hydrogen, Nitrogen, Chlorine, Fluorine, Helium, Neon, Argon, Krypton, Xenon, Radon etc. are the gaseous elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Compounds: A compound substance consists of two or more elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Water, Sugar, Soap, Soda, Salt, Carbon dioxide, etc. are the examples of compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The number of elements is limited but the number of compounds is unlimited.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Every day a number of new compounds are being formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">As a result, the number of compounds is increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">In ancient times the Indian philosopher Konad and the Greek philosopher Democritus raised questions about the formation of countless substances in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Konad named this minute particle atom.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Atom means indivisible i.e. which cannot be broken down further.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">About 2000 years later, in 1803, the British mathematician and natural scientist John Dalton put forward a new idea about atom.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He said that each element is composed of its smallest particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The smallest particles of an element are called its atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The smallest particle of the element, which keeps its own identity.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">It takes part in the chemical reaction and on further division loses its own identity completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The tiniest particle is called atom.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">All the substances in the world are composed of atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Atoms cannot be seen even by the very powerful microscopes.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">If 10 crores of atoms are placed side by side the length of them will be nearly half an inch or 1.25 centimetres only.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The 111 elements have 111 different atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">An atom of each element has its own mass and properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Again the atoms in an element are all alike.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">For example, hydrogen element is composed of only hydrogen atoms; oxygen contains only oxygen atoms and iron contains only iron atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">It is also possible to divide an atom under special condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Atomic energy is generated by breaking the atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">The idea about given by the scientist John Dalton is known as Dalton's Atomic theory.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Elements are composed of very minute indivisible particles called atom.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Atoms of an element are similar in property and mass.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The atoms in hydrogen are all alike, same in mass and property.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Similarly, each iron atom has the same mass and property.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The atoms of different elements are different in their property and mass.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Accordingly the atoms of hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, sulphur, gold, silver, iron, etc. are different from one another in their mass and properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">There are no similarities between the properties of gold and silver or between those of hydrogen and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The atoms of different elements combine with one another in simple numerical proportion to form a compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Scientist John Dalton first established this theory regarding atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">That is why this theory is called Dalton's atomic theory.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Molecule: According to the scientists all matters in this world are composed of minute particles.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">At this stage the smallest particle of the substance, which can exist in free state, is called molecule.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Dalton could not predict how the particles of compounds are formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">During the time of Dalton, there were controversies among the scientists regarding the independent existence of elementary gases like hydrogen, oxygen etc. in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">rather, they remain as a combined particle of two atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">He named these particles as molecule.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The meaning of the word molecule is heap or pile that is a combination of more than one atom.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">That is a union of two or more atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">After 40 years of Avogadro's death, one of his students Cannizaro proved that the theory about molecule is true.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Usually a molecule contains more than one atom.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Two or more atoms combine together to form a molecule.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">There are two types of molecules: elementary molecules and compound molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">When two or more atoms of the same element combine to form a molecule, it is called elementary molecule.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The molecule of an element or a compound is composed of atoms always in a definite proportion.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The elementary gases like hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, chlorine, etc are diatomic.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">But neon, argon, etc are monatomic.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">On the other hand a compound molecule such as water consists of two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Therefore, you must have understood that a compound is formed by the chemical combination of two or more atoms of different elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">If we split the smallest particle of a compound, it does not retain its properties;</sent>
				<sent id ="68">it is split up into the elements that formed it.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">When water is split up, it is divided into its component atoms hydrogen and oxygen.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Water is an example of a compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The molecules of oxygen, hydrogen, etc. are the elementary molecules while carbon dioxide molecule is a compound molecule.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The molecule of a carbon dioxide is a compound molecule.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It is composed of one carbon atom and two oxygen atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Brick, wood, chair, table, coal, stone, iron, metal, etc. are solid substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Solid has definite shape and size.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Solid does not change its shape and size at normal condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">By this time we have known that all substances are composed of the countless molecules of that substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">In solids, the molecules are close together with a very great force of attraction making a lump.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">There is almost no space between the molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">That is why the shape and size of solids cannot be changed easily by exerting pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Liquid: A liquid has a fixed volume but no fixed shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">A liquid takes the shape of a container in which it is kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Experiment: Take a round bottom flask, a beakerand and a glass jar.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Take 100 ml water in each container.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Though the sameamount of water is taken in each container, water takes different shapes in different container.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Water, oil, milk, petrol etc. are examples of liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Liquid is also an aggregate of molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">But in this case the particles are loosely held together having some space between the molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Owing to this liquid takes the shape of a container in which it is kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">But its volume remains unchanged.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Gaseous substance: A gas has no definite shape and volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">The molecules of a gaseous substance tend to go away in any direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Air is a gaseous substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">So, air spreads all over the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The substance which has no definite shape or volume and which spreads freely all over its surrounding is called gas or a gaseous substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The gaseous substance also consists of molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">But in gas, molecules exist freely from each other in sheltered conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">That is, in a gas the molecules stay far away from one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">So the attractive force between the molecules is almost negligible and they tend to go away in any direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">For this reason the container is kept closed when the gas is put in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The gas will go out if there is a small hole in the container.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Solids have definite shape and volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Molecules in solids are very close to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">There is no space among the molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">There is a powerful force of attraction among the solid molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Liquids have a definite volume but no definite shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The molecules of liquids are held loosely together.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">There is a small space among the molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The force of attraction in liquid molecules is less than that in solid ones.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Gas has no definite volume and shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The molecules of gas are far away from each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The force of attraction among the gaseous molecules is almost negligible.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Every molecule of a substance has its own shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">A substance consists of an aggregate of molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Molecules are arranged side by side in the substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Due to this there are some spaces among the molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">For example, if some marbles are staked together, there will be some spaces among the marbles.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">There are similar spaces among the molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">They are called intermolecular space.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">A nail can be penetrated into wood because of intermolecular spaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">When we try to penetrate a nail into wood, the molecules of wood get closer to one another making room for the nail.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">For this the volume of the substance is also reduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Again, when the pressure is reduced, the intermolecular spaces increase; as a result the volume increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Similarly, the molecules of substances become more kinetic after being heated and intermolecular spaces increase among the molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">So, the volume of the substance increases when they are heated.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Again, as the heat is reduced or the substance cools down, it volume decreases and so do the intermolecular spaces.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Experiment 1: Take some copper sulphate or blue vitriol powder in a beaker and fill the beaker with water carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Allow the contents settle down.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Experiment 2: Keep the small container of a perfume keep on a table with its lid open.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">What do you observe in the above experiment?</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Is there any change in the water of the beaker?</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Does the water in the beaker have the same colour throughout?</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Both copper sulphate and perfume are composed of molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The molecules of perfume spread out through air, and the molecules of copper sulphate in the water spread out in all directions.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">This is because the molecules have motions and they can move.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">There is a force of attraction working among the molecules of a substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">It does not allow them move away from one another; it holds them together.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The force of attraction that exists among the molecules is called the intermolecular force.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">However, there is a repulsive force among the molecules due to which they tend to move away from one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">The resultant force of these two opposite forces is called the intermolecular force.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Intermolecular force is very powerful in the solid state.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The molecules of solid body get close to one another with a great force and cannot change positions even in motion or from vibration.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">They vibrate continuously remaining in their positions.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">This enables the solid to have a definite shape and volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">In liquid, intermolecular force is weaker than that of solid.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">In liquid, molecules exist a little apart from one another, and they can move independently.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Hence, the liquid has a definite volume but no fixed shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The intermolecular force in a gas is almost negligible.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">For this reason, the gas has no definite shape and volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">If a small quantity of gas is put in a big container, it spreads throughout the container and fills it.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This happens because of the intermolecular force among the molecules.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The molecule with the properties of smell spread out through air and first reach the people nearby and then to others at a distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Changes in speed of the molecules and transformation of bodies due to heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">We can change the state of matters which are a vailable in nature as solid, liquid and gas by increasing or decreasing temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">If we heat solid ice slightly, it Structure of Matter, Atom and Molecule 11 changes to water.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">When water is boiled, it changes to steam.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Again when steam cools, it is changes to water; if it cools further, it becomes ice.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Thus transformation of matter takes place with the change of temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The transformation of matter At normal temperature the molecules of a solid vibrate continuously in their respective positions.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Heat gives them excess energy and they begin to vibrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">As a result they moveHeat away from one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">On being further heated the intermolecular spaces are increased due to a decrease in intermolecular force and the molecules are allowed to move freely.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">In this condition, solid changes to liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Thus a liquid changes to steam.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">A reverse process takes place when the gaseous substances are cooled;</sent>
				<sent id ="166">the velocity of the molecules decreases and they come close to one another.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">As a result, the intermolecular space decreases and intermolecular attraction increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">If the substance cools further, the intermolecular force increases to such an extent that the gas changes to liquid.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">When the liquid is cools further, the molecules come closer to one another and the intermolecular space decreases to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">As the temperature decreases, the motion of the molecules also decreases resulting in the increase of intermolecular force.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The liquid finally becomes solid.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">In this way, the motion of the molecules of a substance as well as its state is changed by heat.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
