<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-genSci-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.221</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">175</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2041</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">606</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t143">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Compounds are divided on the basis of their chemical properties.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Three such classes are acids, bases and salts.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">There are similarities among the properties of different compounds that belong to the same class.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Acid is an English word.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">All the substances with a sour taste contain acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Tamarind, lemon, tomatoes, orange, citrus fruits, curd, vinegar etc. contain organic acids.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">These are weak acids and they are not harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">But some acids used in laboratories are very strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Usually, hydrochloric acid, sulphuric acid and nitric acid- these three acids are widely used in laboratories and in various chemical industries.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">These acids are inorganic or mineral acids.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Now the question is what is acid?</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Acid reacts with bases to produce salt and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Acid has a sour test and it turns blue litmus red.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Take 4-5 test tubes.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Take 2-3 drops of vinegar, lemon juice, tomato or orange juice, tamarind solution and curd water in each tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Now perform the following tests and note the result down in the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Take three acids which are used in laboratories.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Write down the names and formulaof these acids.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Observe the formula of acids very minutely.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">There is a common element in all the acid containing other different elements.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Can you tell, what is the name of that common element?</sent>
				<sent id ="22">This is hydrogen (H).</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Now take a small piece of zinc in a test tube and add 2-3 drops of dilute hydrochloric acid in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">What do you observe ?</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Reaction starts vigorously and gas 44 General Science comes out in the form of bubbles.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Hold a lighted toper at the mouth of the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">The gas begins to burn with a cracking sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Can you explain what has just happened?</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Now think what is the name of the gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">It is hydrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Write down the equation of chemical reaction between zinc and hydrochloric acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">From the above experiment we can come to the conclusion that all acids contain replaceable hydrogen atoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Acid reacts with metal to produce hydrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">When hydrochloric acid and sulphuric acid react with metals like zinc, magnesium and aluminium, they produce hydrogen.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">It may be mentioned here that some metalslike copper and lead do not react in normal conditions with hydrochloric acid and sulphuric acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Again sodium (Na), potassium (K) and calcium (Ca) react vigorously with acids and these reactions are very dangerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">For this, these metals are not used in laboratory for the preparation of hydrogen gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Now let us discuss the other properties or characteristics of acids.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Take some lime stone (CaCO3) in a test tube and add a few drops of hydrochloric acid in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">What have you seen?</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Reaction starts vigorously and gas comes out as bubbles.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Hold an ignited stick at the mouth of the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The ignited stick is extinguished immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Now can you tell what gas was produced in this reaction?</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The evolved gas is carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">It can be tested by another experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Weknow carbon dioxide turns lime water milky.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Now take some clear lime water in a test tube and pass this gas through lime water.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">What do you observe?</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The clear lime water turns milky.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">From this experimentwhat conclusion may we reach?</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The gas produced is carbon dioxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">One easy method to identify the acids is the use of indicators.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Acids and bases can easily be identified by using indicators.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">An indicator is a chemical compound which changes its colour when it comes in contact with acids or bases.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">From this change of colour we can identify which is acid or which is base, and which is neither acid nor base.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">To identify the acids or bases usually three kinds of indicators viz.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">litmus paper or litmus solution, methyl orange, phenolphthalein, etc. are used in the laboratory.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Besides this we may prepare similar ind cators from flowers and roots of plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Take four test tubes.Take 2-3 drops of dilute acid in each of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Mark these tubes by the numbers1,2,3 and Add 2-3 drops of litmus solution in the test tube number 1.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Similarly add 2-3 drops of phenolphthalein in test tube no 2.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">2-3 drops of methyl orange in test tube 3 and add a few drops of joba flowers essence in test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Observe the change of colour of these indicators as they come in contact with acid and write them in the table below.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Notice how the colour changes, (if any) due to the presence of each indicator and write your comments in the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Dilute aquaus solution of sulphuric acid turns blue litmus red.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Dilute sulphuric acid solution is sour to taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Therefore, from the above facts, it is proved that sulphuric acid is an acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Sulphuric acid is a strong acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">If water is added to sulphuric acid to dilute it, the acid becomes very hot and starts boiling.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">So never add water to acid in order to make dilute sulphuric acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Acid is added to water in small drops to dilute it.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Never taste sulphuric acid with mouth, no matter if it is dilute or concentrated.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">One should be careful when working with hydrochloric acid, sulphuric acid, nitric acid, etc. so that they do not come in contact with one's skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The compounds having opposite properties of acids are known as bases.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">When acid and base are combined together a new compound is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">It has neither the properties of acid nor that of base.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Acid and base react to form salt and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Usually, the oxides (compounds of metal and oxygen) and hydroxides (compounds of metal, oxygen and hydrogen) are called bases.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">It is seen that the formula of the above compounds are oxides and hydroxides of metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">These are bases.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Therefore, any oxide or hydroxide of a metal, which possesses the property of neutralising an acid to produce salt and water is called base.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Most of the bases are not soluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The bases which are soluble in water are called alkalis.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">So, alkalis are special types bases which are soluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">That is, all alkalis are bases but all bases are not alkalis.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">For example, zinc oxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, iron hydroxide, copper hydroxide, etc. are bases.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Out of these, sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide are soluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">These hydroxides are alkalis.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">But iron and copper are insoluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">So these two metal hydroxides are bases, but not alkalis.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Bases may or may not be soluble in water but alkalis are all soluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Take few drops of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide in two test tubes and repeat the experiment no.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">4.4 using different types of indicators.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Note down the results in similar tables.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Now perform the following experiments.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Take some lime water in a test tube and introduce red and blue litmus papers in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Observe the change of colour in the litmus paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">You will see that the colour of red litmus paper in lime water has changed to blue.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Take the taste of the lime water.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">It has acrid taste.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">In this way soda or all other alkaline solutions turn red litmus blue and they taste acrid.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Take 20 ml sodium hydroxide solution in a beaker using a measuring cylinder.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Add 1-2 drops of phenolphthalein solution as an indicator.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">You will see that the solution has turned into a nice pink colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Now add some drops of dilute hydrochloric acid with a dropper.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Stir the solution in beaker well and continue the addition of acid in drops.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">A time will come when the pink solution will become colourless.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Write down the number of acid drops that are required to make 20 ml Solution colourless.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Sodium hydroxide is a strong alkali.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Can you tell why the colour of the indicator changed when hydrochloric acid was added to the sodium hydroxide solution?</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The reason is that alkali and acid neutralize each other through a vigorous chemical reaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">An indicator is not used in this stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Now, heat the colourless solution of acid and base until it dries up.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">What do you find at the bottom of the beaker?</sent>
				<sent id ="116">There is a white residue at the bottom of the beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Take a little residue after cooling the beaker, and taste it.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">What taste does it have?</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It tastes salty?</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Was there any chemical reaction?</sent>
				<sent id ="121">If any chemical reaction occurs in this case, let us try to express the reaction by an equation.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">From this experiment, it is understood that alkali reacts with acid to produce salt and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">In most cases, when alkali is added to metallic salt solutions, metallic hydroxide is precipitated by a chemical reaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Take 2 ml of copper sulphate solution in a big test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Add 1 ml of sodium hydroxide solution to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Precipitate is formed at the bottom of the test tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Can you tell what precipitate it is?</sent>
				<sent id ="128">An aqueous solution of a base has a soapy touch or feeling.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">An aqueous solution of a base conducts electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Arguments for the statement: Sodium hydroxide is an alkali Sodium hydroxide is an alkali due to the following reasons:</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The base sodium hydroxide is soluble in water.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide turns red litmus blue.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">When one drop of phenolphthalein is added to sodium hydroxide, the solution becomes pink.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">One drop of methyl orange turns sodium hydroxide solution yellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Sodium hydroxide solution reacts with dilute acid solution vigorously to produce salt and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Some metal hydroxides are precipitated by adding sodium hydroxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">The solution of sodium hydroxide has a soapy touch.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The above properties are the characteristics of alkali.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">From the above arguments we can prove that sodium hydroxide is an alkali.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Salt is a special type of compound in chemistry.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Besides edible salt or sodium chloride, soda, blue vitriol etc. are also salts.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">From each of the above examples, it is found that metallic part of alkali e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Na, Zn, K etc. replaces hydrogen atom of the acid to form a new compound which is salt.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">In the above examples Na, Zn, K, etc are basic radicals and Cl, SO4, NO3, etc are acid radicals.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">So we can say, salts are composed of basic and acid radicals.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">When acid is added to alkali solution, a vigorous reaction takes place.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">As a result of such reaction both acid and alkali lose their properties and form new compounds, i.e. salt and water.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The chemical name of a salt is taken from the name of the acid or the base that produces it.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The name of the metal (basic part) is mentioned first and the name of the acid part comes next.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The salt which is produced by the reaction of hydrochloric acid is called chloride salt e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Sodium chloride, Calcium chloride, Ammonium chloride etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The salt produced from sulphuric acid is called sulphate salt e,g sodium sulphate, copper sulphate, ammonium sulphate etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The salt of nitric acid is called nitrate salt e.g potassium nitrate copper nitrate, ammonium nitrate etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The salt of carbonic acid is called carbonate salt e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">sodium carbonate, calcium carbonate, ammonium carbonate etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The common names and chemical names of some salts which are used in our everyday life are; Take three beakers.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Now, take dilute hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide sodium chloride in the first, second and third beaker respectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">All these three solutions are colourless.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Introduce blue litmus paper to the first beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Litmus paper turns blue.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">So, the solution in the first beaker is acid.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Introduce red litmus paper to the 2nd beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Litmus turns blue.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">So, the solution in 2nd beaker is alkali.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Introduce both red and blue litmus papers to the 3rd beaker.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">No change of colour is noticed.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">So, the solution of the 3rd beaker is a salt solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">In the 3rd beaker you put sodium chloride solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Salt is neither acidic nor basic.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Salts are formed by the chemical reactions between acids and alkalis.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">So, salts are usually neutral compounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Solution of sodium chloride is a neutral compound.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">So sodium chloride solution does not change the colour of the indicator.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">You have seen in experiment no 4.4 the change of colour of different indicators with acid and alkali.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">In a salt solution, if there is any change of colour of the indicators, write down the observation in a tabular form.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
