<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-genSci-14</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.918</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">186</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2515</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">985</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t129">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">It has bean made possible due to the advancement of science and technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The present age is said to be the evolutionary age of science and technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">A country is as developed in science and technology as wealthy it is and the standard of living depends on these.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Perhaps the discovery of electricity has brought about the most influential changes to our life.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Now, just use the switch and there is light, and the fan starts moving.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Many home appliances like the fridge, air conditioner.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">television set, washing machine, VCR, telex, fax, computer etc. are run by electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">These things have made our life easy and comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Think a while and you will understand what contribution science and technology have in meeting our fundamental needs of food, clothing, housing, health and education.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Farmers in the past used to depend on the will of nature for cultivation;</sent>
				<sent id ="11">they had to wait for rain.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Now irrigation by pumping water has made it possible to cultivate lands in time.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The uses of power-tiller and various types of manure have increased productions of crops by many times.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Even in the deserts crops are being produced by the help of irrigation.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Crops are protected from various harmful insects by using pesticides.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Cold storage facilities enable farmers to store their products for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">As a result we can now have potato, tomato and other seasonal vegetables and fruits all the year round.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Thus, science and technology is helping us meet the demand of ever increasing food sector.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Various artificial clothes such as nylon , rayon, tetron etc. Science and Technology in Everyday Life 167 meeting our demands of clothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Cement, rods, bricks etc. gave us means to raise sky scrappers.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">We can make economic use of our lands by using the technology of building multi-storied houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">It is said that health is the root of all happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Health is wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Science has valuable contributions to health sectors to protect us from diseases, to prevent untimely deaths and to ensure long life.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Diseases like malaria, cholera, pox, plague etc. are now removed from our world.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Ask your father, grand father; and you will know how thousands of people used to die every year due to these diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">It has been possible now to prevent diseases like measles, polio, whooping cough, diphtheria, and tetanus with the discovery of vaccines.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">The discovery of x-ray, echocardiogram, ultrasonogram, endoscope, scanners have led to the correct and timely diagnosis of many diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Now, transplantation of heart and kidney are also possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Cornea grafting gives blind people vision.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">In the field of transportation and communication Science has brought revolutionary changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">We can comfortably and quickly go from one place to another by car, railway or aeroplane.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">A distance which took months to go takes only few hours now.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">You can send a message to your near and dear ones by telephone instead of going there in person.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">By telephone youcan talk not only to your friends in the country but you can talk to people anywhere in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">There are other means of communicating with people far away from you as you can use telex and fax too.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Radio and television are wonderful inventions of science.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">For example, distant learning academic courses are now being offered through radio and television.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Thus, it is clear that in all spheres of life we apply science and technology and enjoy their blessings.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">But still we all can not enjoy the fruit of Science and technology.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">This is due to the fact that science and technology have not been properly promoted in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">We must study science, digest it thoroughly and make proper use of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Appropriate technology necessary for our country should be innovated and applied to faster the process of development.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">All of you have seen and used radio.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">It is run by battery and easy to carry.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">People sometimes call it transistor too.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">But actually transistor is not a radio, it is only a component of radio.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The invention of transistor has paved the way of making radio.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">It has made radio portable and has lessen its electricity consumption.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Thus the name radio was replaced by transistor.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Again by radio we mean a machine used to hear music or news.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">But that is not the fact; radio is a useful device to facilitate communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Radio communication system has got a sound transmitter and a receiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The sound that is sent by a transmitter may be of music, news or talks.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The radio we use in our house is actually a receiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">In a radio station a transmitter is installed.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Radio transmitter and receiver may be of various sizes and of arious strengths.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">You may have seen walky-talky used by the police officers.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">This has both the functions of a transmitter and a receiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">But by such radios communication is not possible between two far places.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">These radios can communicate within a limited range.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">There are radio transmitters and receivers in ships by which communications with other ships or planes are maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Radio is a machine which converts sound into electricity and again electricity into sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In a radio transmitter a microphone is used to convert sound into electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">This electricity is then amplified again and again by an amplifier and a strong electromagnetic wave is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">With the help of an antenna this electromagnetic wave is spread to the surrounding space.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The function of the loud speaker is opposite to that of a microphone.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Microphone converts sound into electricity while the loudspeaker converts electricity into sound and we hear the sound earlier converted by microphone to electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">By a television we can see picture and hear sound at the same time.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Like radio, television has a transmitter.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Transmitters are stationed at the television centre.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The transmitter has two parts; one is for sound transmission and the other for picture transmission.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The transmission and reception of sound is almost like that of a radio.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Picture is taken by a television camera.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The camera screen converts the picture that falls on it into electricity i.e. here light energy is transformed into electrical energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">This electrical energy is spread into the space by the antenna of the transmitter in the form of electromagnetic wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">This wave is received by the antenna of our television sets which is nothing but a receiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">As the antenna catches the wave, it send it as electricity to the different parts of the television set.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Finally it appears in out television screen as the original picture that had fallen on the television camera.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">There is good matching between picture and sound so that we hear the appropriate sound with appropriate picture.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">After taking a picture by a television camera, we can preserve it in a tape.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">This is known as video recording and the tape is called video cassette.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This cassette can be run by VCP or VCR and the recorded picture and sound appears on the television screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Generally wedding programmes, birthday parties and other important events are recorded in cassette which is later seen by VCP or VCR.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The cinema, drama, and musical functions anything can be recorded this way and later can be seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">As in television news, recorded pictures with sound of important events are shown along with the news.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">On television screen, with the help of satellite, we can see almost all the important and interesting events taking place across the globe.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Although we use television as a means of recreation its role in generating information is even greater.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Television is also used to educate people.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">A teacher can teach thousand of students through it and the learners can attend thoselessons sitting at their own places.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Television is an example of such educational programme.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Moreover, we can develop our knowledge by watching the talk shows where eminent intellectuals express their views on issues of national and international importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Another wonderful invention of modern science is computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The use of computer is increasing day by day in the world as it has made doing work easier.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">It is unparallel in doing work rapidly and skillfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Computer is being widely used in the office, bank, industry, hospital, educational institution etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Even we use personal computers at our houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Computers can be big or small not only in terms of its look but in terms of its capacity.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">There are three main parts of a P.C- input, output and central processing unit (CPU).</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The input looks like a keyboard of a type writer.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">By this key board computer is put into action.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The central processing unit (CPU) looks like a flat box.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">It is the brain of the computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">It works on the direction given by the key board.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The output portion is a small television screen.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">It is called monitor.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The result of the direction that a key board gives is seen in monitor accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">A computer works very fast without making any mistake and can store a large amount of information.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">That is why it is widely used.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Computer can be used for various purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Some of the uses are: Typing:- This is called word processing.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">By computers we can compose a document quickly and accurately.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">As a result, it increases the skills and speed of our office work.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Storing of information:- Many people work in an office.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Records about each employee such as their date of joining, date of birth, salary, date of increment etc. are stored in a computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">In a business organization all kinds of financial information regarding utility bills, money transactions, clients dues are stored and organised by computers.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">In medical services:- Computer is used to diagnose an illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Fully computerised diagnostic units are now operating in some hospitals and clinics in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Moreover, computers are being used in operating complex surgeries.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">In Industries: Computers are used in manufacturing industries to control the quality of products and to check the demand and supply of goods.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">In transport sector: Now a days railway and air tickets are being booked or sold by computers.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Bangladesh Railway has already computerised its ticketing system.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Computers are also used in road traffic control and automatic take off and landing of aeroplane.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Even many of the fuel/gas stations are fully run by computers.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">In military operations: Computers are now being used in penetrating the enemy target in war.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">It is also used to build military hardware.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">In research: For research works scientists use computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">It is used to collect, process and analyse data.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Complex mathematical solutions are also done very quickly by computers.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">In public examinations: Thousands of candidates appear in public examinations like SSC or HSC each year.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">It is very difficult to evaluate the answers scripts and prepare results of such a huge number of candidates each year.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Now a days, the marking of SSC answer scripts and preparation of results are being done by computer.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">In printing industry: Computer has valuable contributions to printing industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">It is widely used for composing, setting, designing of books, journals and news papers.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Computers have revolutionised our printing industry.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Telex and fax are two very modern ways of communication.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Telex and fax have numbers like telephone.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">There is a typewriter with the telex.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The information, news or letter to be sent is typed by this type writer.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Now send it to the desired telex number; the typed message is received at the receiver's end.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Fax machine has a telephone attached to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The information to be sent is written by hand or typed on a piece of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The desired number is dialled and the piece of paper with the information is entered into the fax machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">A photocopy of the document comes out of the fax machine at the receiver's end.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Texts, pictures, maps or any other documents can be sent by the fax.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Energy comes to us from the sun as heat and light.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The heat is used to dry cloths, paddy, jute etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">This heat can be used to cook our food also.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">For this the sun rays are to be concentrated at a certain point.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">The place around the concentrating point will be hot enough to cook food.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Sun rays are reflected by bright metal disks in the shape of a pan and is concentrated directly under the cooking pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Heat cannot be controlled in a solar cooker and it cannot be used at night and cloudy days.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">So it is not used widely.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">But it has some advantages too; the solar energy is renewable, it does not cost any fuel and it does not pollute our environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Moreover, it helps us in saving our limited sources of energy such as coal, fuel and gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">In the villages of Bangladesh cowdung, dry straw, grass and other easily putrescent refuses are used as fuels.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">These refuse is not very much healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">These make the cooking pots and clothes dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Moreover, while using these refuse, the heat received is not fully used and so cooking takes a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Scientists have found that if these putrescent refuse is fermented in a airtight vacuum, then a gas is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">This is called biogas.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">About 60-70 percent of this gas is composed of methane which is an excellent fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Rest of the gas is mainly carbon di-oxide.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Biogas can be produced not only from cowdung but also from stool and urine of the hen, goat, ship etc. and from rotten water plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Beside these, cars can be run on this gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">It can be used in preserving food grains and fruits too.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The remains after producing biogas is a good organic manure.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">It is also used in fisheries and pearl production.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Another advantages of biogas is, it does not pollute the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Though animal excrements are used in biogas plant, it does not spread bad odour or does not have any unhygienic effect.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Biogas is a source of renewable energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It can play an important role to meet the energy crisis of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">The oven used in rural Bangladesh wastes 85-90 percent of available energy, only 10- 15 percent energy is utilised by it.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The characteristics of an improved oven are: The improved oven has short leg only about half an inch height.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">So much heat is not lost through the space in between legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">There is a sieve or strainer at a small distance nside the oven.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">So the fire above the sieve completely heats the cooking ot.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">There are holes bellow the sieve; air can go inside through these holes and completely burns the fuel.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">As a result no unburnt fuel remains except ashes.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">There are various types of improved ovens: Some are portable, some have sieve and some are sieveless.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">There are ovens built completely under the ground having one or two mouths.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Some ovens are fitted with chimney.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Some of these ovens are suitable for hotels where a large quantity of food is prepared.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Some ovens use fire wood only.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Again there are ovens where all kinds of fuel like fire wood, straw, cow-dung cake, sawdust etc. are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Improved ovens can easily be made of clay.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
