<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-genSci-13</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.891</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">217</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2961</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">822</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t128">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">When two charged conductors are connected by a metal wire, what determines the flow of charge from one conductor to another?</sent>
				<sent id ="2">It is not determined by the quantity of charge in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The factor on which flow of charge depends is known as electric potential or electric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">It may be compared to temperature of water level.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The hot body will give heat and the cold one will take until their temperature becomes equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Again, two water containers A and B with water is connected by a tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">There is a stop cork in the tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Container A is narrow and B is wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Water level in A is higher than that in B but B contains more water than A.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Open the stop cork and you will see water flows from A to B.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Water flow continues as water level in A is higher than in B.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The water flow stops as soon as water level in A and B are equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Pressure of water depends on water level.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">So flow of water among the containers depends on the water level or the pressure of water, but not on their quantity of content.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Similarly, flow of charges between two charged Hight bodies connected electrically depends not on their charge contents but on the difference of electric potential.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">As temperature indicates the thermal condition of a body, potential indicates the electrical condition of a conductor.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">In a charged body, mutual repulsion among the charges produces a pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">This is known as electrical pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">In electricity electric potential is used instead of electric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Therefore, when two charged bodies are electrically connected, the electric condition, which determines the direction of charge flow, is called electric potential or electric pressure.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">If two bodies of different potentials are connected by a wire, electricity flows through that wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Conventionally the direction of the current flow is taken from higher potential to lower potential.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">But actually electron, the carrier of electricity, flows from lower potential to higher one.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">The higher the potential difference between the bodies is, the higher the flow of current.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The less is potential difference, the less will be the current flow.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">If there is no potential difference, there will be no flow of current.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">So, in order to get continuous current flow adifference of potential must be maintained by any mechanism.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">In electric cell the chemical energy and in dynamo mechanical energy is used to maintain potential difference.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">This flow of negative charge in a definite direction is called electric current or simply current.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Mathematically, the quantity of charge that flows through any cross-section of the body per second is the current.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">We know like charges repel each other and opposite charges attracts.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Based upon his discovery the unit of charge was determined.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">In international unit the unit charge is named after his name and is called coulomb.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Thus 1 ampere flow of current means flow of 1 coulomb charge per second through any cross section;</sent>
				<sent id ="35">10 ampere current means flow of 10 coulomb charge per second.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">To measure small quantity of current two unit other units, milli-ampere and micro ampere are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">International practical unit of potential is volt.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Water passes very easily through a wide pipe but can not flow that easily through a narrow tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Because, in wide pipe water faces less resistance than a narrow one.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">So much water flows through wider tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">So it is understood that wider were resist less the flow of electric current than the narrow wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">The property for which resistance is offered to the flow of electric current is known as electrical resistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">We know current is the flow of charges.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">There are molecules, atoms in a conductor.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">With them the moving electrons collide.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Such collision decreases electron movement for which current flow decreases too.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">This obstruction to the flow of current is the resistance of the conductor.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Not all the matters have the same resistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Matters having less resistance conduct more current and those have greater resistance conduct less current.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The resistance of good conductors is less than that of bad conductors.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">The resistance of wood, rubber, paper etc. are so high that almost no current passes through them.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">They are called insulator or nonconductors.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Ohm is the S.I unit of resistance.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The resistance of a conductor depends on its length, cross-section, material, temperature and other physical conditions.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The unit of resistance defined above is a very small one.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">So to measure high resistance its multiple, kilo ohm and mega ohm are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Power is the rate of doing work.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The work done in 1 second by electrical source or machine is called its power.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The practical unit of power is watt.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">The rate of doing 1 joule work per second is called 1 watt.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Energy is the capacity for doing work.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Total work done is a measure of energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">The practical unit of work or energy is joule.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The S.I unit of electrical energy is watt hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The commercial unit of electrical energy is kilowatt-hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">The energy spent by a machine of 1 kilowatt when it works for 1 hour is called 1 kilowatt-hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">One unit is usually taken as one kilowatt- hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">To know how much electrical energy is consumed by a consumer in a house, school, shop, factory an electrical meter is installed.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We know from the meter reading how much energy has been consumed.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Direct Current: The current, which always flows in the same direction, is called direct current.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Electric cells or batteries give direct current.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">The current does not change direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Batteries are used in torch light, radio, transistor, calculator, watch and electric toys.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">This type of current is also produced by D.C generators.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">This type of current was used before to light houses and run factories.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">But it is not in use now a days for such purposes.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Alternating Current: The current, which changes direction after a certain time is called alternating current.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The electricity supplied in all the countries of world is alternating current.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">This type of current is easy to supply and easy to use.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Dynamos or generator produce this current.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">In this world electric supply companies supply this current by generator.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Alternating current is used to light bulbs, to run TV, fan, fridge, air conditioner and other electrical appliances.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The machinery of factories is run by this electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">In our house, Shops, offices A.C is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">In our country alternating current changes direction 50 times per second.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Electric circuit: Series and Parallel circuits.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">The complete path through which a current travels from positive end of the source to the negative end is called electric circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">In the electric circuit electric bulb, fan and other electrical appliances are connected.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The circuit can be opened or closed by using a switch.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Current flows when the circuit is closed and the flow stops when it is opened.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Certain symbols are used to draw an electric circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Some of these symbols are shown in figure 13.3.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The tools and machinery in the circuit are connected in two ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">In figure 13.4 two electrical bulbs are shown which connected in two different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">In fig two bulbs are connected one after another and then through a cell the circuit has been completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">This type of connection is known as series connection and the circuit is known as series circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">This type of circuit is called parallel circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">In series connection same current flows through two bulbs.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">The resistance offered by the two bulbs is greater than the resistance offered by a simple bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">So the brightness would be less when the two bulbs are connected in series than what would have been if one bulb was connected.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Again, if one of them is fused, the current through the whole circuit stops flowing and the other bulb will go off.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">In series circuit when the the two bulbs light at a time and when the switch is off they go out together.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Bulbs can not be switched on or off separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Therefore, such type of connection is not suitable for houses and is not used either.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">In parallel connection current flows through separate path for each bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The potential difference will be the same for each bulb, so each bulb will get full driving strength of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">As a result, each bulb will light brightly.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">In parallel connection each bulb will light with the same brilliance as when the bulbs are connected one after another to a cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">But the current that would flow through two bulbs would be twice the current that would flow through one.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">As the same cell supplies current its life will be half.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">If generator is used to supply current, the cost of electric energy for the two bulbs will be double than that for one bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">So, Parallel connection is better for house wiring.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The instrument used to measure current is known as ammeter.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Its full name is ampere meter.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">This meter records current flow in ampere.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">It is connected in series in a circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Like a cell, ammeter also has two ends one is positive, and the other is negative.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The positive end is red in colour and the negative end is black.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The positive end of the ammeter is to be connected to the positive end of the cell.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Reverse connection would deflect the inbox in the backward direction instead of going forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The series connection of ammeter in a circuit must not change its current flow.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Therefore ammeter resistance is kept be low.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">This is done by adding a small resistance in parallel with the coil, used to construct this meter.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">This arrangement makes ammeter resistance minimum and so connection to circuit does not change its current significantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">To know potential difference between any two points of a circuit we use another meter known as voltmeter.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">This directly measures potential difference in volt.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It is connected in parallel to the points between which potential difference has to be measured.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Voltmeter also has a red positive end and a black negative end.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">The red end is connected to the higher potential point and the black end is to the lower potential point.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">In order of resist the flow of main current through voltmeter, high resistance is connected in series with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">For this high resistance, very small current goes through voltmeter and thus does not alter the main flow significantly.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">By a switch we start or stop current in an electrical circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">To on or off a torch light or an electric bulb in a house we make use of a switch.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">A switch on means current is established and a switch off means current is cut off.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Thus, a switch is a device by which current is established or cut off through a circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Every electric appliance like electric light, fan, T.V etc. has a separate switch to work.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Switch on the light bulb it is lighting, switch on the T.V. it starts working.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">You need no light or fan, nor do you want to watch television any more, switch off their switches.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Thus by a switch you can start an electric machine or turn it off.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">So, electricity is saved by a switch; don't keep a light or T.V on unnecessarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Stronger flow of current may cause fire in our houses.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">To avoid such accidents, the fuse wire is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The fuse wire is a wire made of an alloy of metallic tin and lead.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">It is narrow and has low melting point.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The wire is set on a china clay structure.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">If the flow of current goes above the specific limit, this wire melts and as such the circuit is disconnected.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Thus by using fuses electric appliances are protected from being damaged due to an overflow of current.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">A fuse is used in series in the circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Fuses are of different values.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Generally, we use fuses of 5, 10, 15, 30, 60 ampere.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">A 5 ampere fuse means a current flow of more than 5 ampere melts this fuse wire.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">We use different ampere fuses for different appliances.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">5 ampere fuse is used for lights, fans, T.V sets etc. 15 ampere fuses are used for electric irons and electric kettles.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">We use 30 or 60 ampere fuses in the main switches.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">If we use a fuse of 30 ampere with a television set, it will not serve the purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Because a television set uses current up to 5 ampere; a flow of current reater than this will burn the television set.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">So only a fuse of 5 ampere is suitable for a television set.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">What happens if a fuse of 5 ampere is used with an electric kettle?</sent>
				<sent id ="159">As soon as the switch is on, the fuse will melt and no current will pass to operate the kettle.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Electric kettles require current more then 5 ampere.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Use of the fuse of proper value makes protect electrical appliances from being burnt and damaged.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Again a fuse of smeller value than that is needed will make the appliance inactive.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">We often use two or three small wires together to repair the fuse of our house wiring.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">It should not be done as it may increase the strength of the fuse.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">For example if we use two 5 ampere fuse wires together to repair a fuse it will have the value of a 10 ampere fuse.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The circuit breaker is a special kind of fuse which automatically breaks a circuit and makes it when necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">If for some reason the flow of current increases through a circuit, the circuit breaker goes off and stops the flow of current.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The flow automatically starts when the supply of current becomes normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Thus, circuit breaker protects electrical appliances.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The electric iron and electric kettle are covered with steel plates.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Inside the cover there is a coil of wire through which current flows and makes the steel-plates hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The wire of the coil is also covered by non conducting materials so that the currentcarrying wire can not touch the cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">If for some error this wire touches the cover, the cover will be electrified.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">In that case anybody touching the case will have a great shock.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">For protection from such shocks such electrical appliances have three terminals for connection.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">There are two terminals for positive and negative connection and the third one is for earth connection.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The earth terminal connects the cover to the earth i.e. ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">So if the cover is electrified current flows to the ground directly.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">This wire carries away additional current also.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Thus it acts as a fuse as well as a means of preventing electric shock to the users.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The earth pin of a three hole socket is connected to this line.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The human body is a conductor of electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">But the body has 50,000 ohm resistance at normal condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">So a small current can not cause much harm to human body.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">But a heavy current can cause much shock to our body and damage the body cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Current when passing through heart, may cause heart attack which even may lead to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">The stronger the current is the greater is the possibility of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">A wire is heated when current passes through it.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">For some reason if a heavy current passes though, a wire may get very hot and cause fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Short circuit: Your path to school goes around a field but you often walk across the field to make the path shorter.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Same may be the case with current.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">If for some reason current takes a shorter path instead of its usual longer path, short circuit takes place.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">You may have seen two rubber or plastic coated long wires going to all important places of your house.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">A wire carries current to an electric bulb and comes back after going through the bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">There is a very fine wire in the bulb which resists greatly to current and produces light.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">But for some reason if the two wires are joined somehow, current gets a short circuit.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Again connections of many electrical appliances in the same circuit cause overload.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">So avoid using the same socket to connect many appliances like light, fan, television set, fridge etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Use separate connection for each.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">We use many electrical appliances in our daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">You have read about the design and function of the electric bulb, iron and heater in class seven.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Here, we shall discuss about another very simple instrument the electric bell.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">The electric bell: In this instrument you will see practical use of magnet along with current.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Here a horse-shoe magnet is placed on an iron or wooden platform A hammer is fixed with a soft iron plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The soft iron plate is placed before the poles of the horse-shoe magnet and a spring is fixed with it on the above.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The closed end of the spring is connected to the coil wound on the electro magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">A screw remains in touch with the open end of the plate when there is no current.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">This screw completes the electrical path through a switch, a battery and a coil of electro magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">A bell b is placed before the hammer.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Press the switch and the circuit is completed.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Current passes through the coil over the electro-magnet.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">As a result, it becomes a strong magnet which attracts the soft iron plate A.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">this attraction pushes the hammer to the bell and sounded it.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">At the same time, as the hammer goes to strike the bell, the electric connection with screws goes off.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The flow of current stops;</sent>
				<sent id ="216">as a result, the electro-magnet loses magnetism and the plate is connected to the screw again.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Again current produces magnetism, which attractsthe soft plate toward the hammer, and the hammer strikes the bell.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
