<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-genSci-11</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:01.846</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">219</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2780</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">904</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t126">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">What is sound?</sent>
				<sent id ="2">We know energy has many forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">We can feel some forms of energy through our senses.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Heat energy gives us the sensation of hot and cold while light energy gives us the sensation of vision.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Similarly, the form of energy that gives us the sensation of hearing is called sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Sound is produced as a result of vibration.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Some of the sounds are mild some are strong;</sent>
				<sent id ="8">some are sweet and some are hard;</sent>
				<sent id ="9">some sound pleases us some annoy us.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">How are they produced?</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Take a cup made of brass or any other metal and strike it with an iron spoon.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">A metalic sound will be heard.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The sound will not cease at once but will be heard for some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The sound will be fainter and fainter before it is not heard anymore.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Again strike the cup but this time you touch it just after striking it.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">What you feel?</sent>
				<sent id ="17">You feel that the cup is vibrating and the vibrating stops as soon as you touch the cup with your hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The sound will be heard no longer.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">It seems that as if there is a relation between sound and vibration.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Yes there is.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Sound is produced due to vibration of a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">This vibration is so rapid that normally one can not see it with naked eyes but can feel it by touching.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Beat a drum with stick, the vibration of the skin diaphragm produces sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">When playing on a guitar, the vibration of the strings makes the sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">If you blow a pipe, there is vibration in the air inside the pipe and sound is heard.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Place your fingers gently on your throat and then talk, you will feel vibration.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Stop talking the vibration stops too.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Inside our throat there is larynx.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">There are two light diaphragms in our larynx which are called vocal chords.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">When we talk, there is vibration in the vocal chords and sound is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">If you want more proof of the fact that vibration produces sounds, then do the following experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">You need a tuning fork to do this experiment.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Tuning fork is an U-shaped steel rod with a handle.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Strike the fork with a hammer padded with rubber, you will hear sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">You also need a pith ball very light ball made of wood pith.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Suspend this ball with thread and touch an arm of the tuning fork with pith ball.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">You will see that the ball is being pushed by the fork arm again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Touch the arm by hand you will feel its vibration.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">As you touch, vibration stops and the sound stops too.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">So the experiment proves that vibration is the cause of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">We have seen that sound is produced by vibration of bodies.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">But how does it reach our ears from a distance?</sent>
				<sent id ="43">It comes through air.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Air is the medium through which sound travels through and reach our ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">There is a light diaphragm in our ear.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Sound vibration enters in and vibrates this diaphragm.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">When this vibration is carried to our brain, we hear the sound Does the sound travel through air only?</sent>
				<sent id ="48">No, sound also passes through other gaseous medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Even it can travel through solid and liquid medium too.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Stick your ear at one end of an iron or wooden bench and tell your friend to make sound at the other end.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">You will hear a clear sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">You see a railway engine coming toward you.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">The sound is not yet audible.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Stick your ear to the railway line and the sound will be heard.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">While taking a bath in a pond, dive and talk to some one diving at a distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">He will hear your voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Fill a balloon with water, stick ear at one side and rub at the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Sound of rubbing is heard.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Can sound pass through a vacuum?</sent>
				<sent id ="60">No, because who will carry sound vibration if there is no medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The body whose vibration makes sound vibrates the medium with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Vibration passes from one layer to other layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">If there is no medium no sound is transmitted.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Therefore for transmission of sound some sort of medium is necessary-be it in the form of solid, liquid or gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">There is no air on the moon.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">So when astronauts reach there, they only see the movement of their lips but can't hear each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The source of a sound is the vibration of a body.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">But how does sound transmit through air?</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The vibration of a body means it goes in one direction, stops for a moment and then goes in the opposite direction;</sent>
				<sent id ="70">again stops for a while and repeats its motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Thus a vibration is made up of a to and fro motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Thus the vibrating body alternately compresses and rarefies the air layer attached to the front of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Thus the compression and rarefaction of the air spread from the source of sound in all directions, that is, the sound is transmitted.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Say, a tuning fork vibrates and produces sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">For our understanding the air before the fork may be taken as divided into a number of thin air layers.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">This compressed air layer compresses the next layer.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Thus compressed layers are produced one after another as long as the fork moves to right.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">When the arm comes back to left towards B, the pressure on the attached layer decreases.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">As a result the layer now is rarefied ).</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The Rarefied layer goes after the compressed air produced before.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">They all moved forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Thus vibration of tuning fork creates compression and rarefaction alternately.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Such alternate compression and rarefaction in air caused by vibration of sounds is called sound wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">It goes in all direction as waves of compression and rarefaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Remember, no air particle actually moves from place to place and carries sound;</sent>
				<sent id ="86">they only vibrate to and for about their fixed positions.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">They produce compression and rarefaction which carry sound as waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Also remember that sound is a kind of energy and the carrier of this energy is the sound wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">It will be clearer if we try to understand what a wave is.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Take a large basin full of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Drop a stone in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">You will see that high and low waves of water are produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The waves are spreading in all directions up to the sides of the basin.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Place a small paper boat on the wave; it vibrates up and down at the same place.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Some energy is necessary for making the boat vibrate.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Where does this energy come from?</sent>
				<sent id ="97">It is the stone which gives this energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The stone creates vibration in the water particles of that place.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">This vibration goes from that place to the adjacent places of still water particles and forms waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">These waves carry energy too in the form of wave.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">In this way the energy which produced vibration at a place is transferred to another place.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Wave is a mechanism of carrying energy from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Take a rope and tie one end to a pole.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Hold the other end with your hand and shake it.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Each part of the rope will move up and down and produce waves.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">The waves thus produced goes from one end of the rope to the other end but no part of the rope changes its place.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The wave carries energy of your hand to other place.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">How does a sound wave move?</sent>
				<sent id ="109">You may have a clear idea, if you alternately compress and expand a spring.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">First compress and then extend it; wave of compression and extension is produced.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">sound wave moves through the air in this fashion.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Extend your both hands and move them up and down.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Does your movement of hands produce sound?</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Of course it does; because all vibrations make sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">But you could not hear the sound as all sounds are not heard.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">A source of sound vibrates and produces sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Vibration means sound source moves to and fro again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Starting from one end when the vibrating body goes to the other end and comes back to the starting point, it completes one full vibration.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The number of complete vibration done in one second by a body is called frequency.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Our ears can not hear the sounds produced by all vibrations.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">It is seen that sound having frequency of less than 20 and above 20,000 can not produce the sense of hearing in our ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">This sound is known as ultrasonic sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">If the frequency of vibration is between 20 and 20,000 per second, it can produce audible sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The sounds produced within this range of frequency are known as infrasonic sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">It is to be remembered that this range of audible frequency is not the same for all people.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Most adult person can hear sound having frequency ranging 25 to 18,For children this frequency range is greater.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">You may have noticed that all people do not hear equally.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Again the audibility range is not the same for all animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Dog, cat, bat and titmouse can hear sound of frequency more than 20.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">There is a flute which produces sound of frequency more than 20.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Men can not hear this sound but dog hears it and comes to his master.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Bats can produce ultrasonic sound and move in the dark using this sound though it can not see things.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">In thunder we see the flashes of light first and then hear sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Why don't we see the light and hear the sound at the same time?</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Sound takes longer time than light to reach us.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">The velocity of light is much higher than that of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">When you watch cricket match from a distance, you see the bat hitting the ball before your hear the sound of hitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Watch gun firing from a distance and you will see the smoke of firing first and the sound of firing afterward.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">All these examples indicate that sound takes time to cover a distance, that is, sound has got certain velocity.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">the distance covered by sound in one second is called the velocity of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Velocity of sound depends on the nature of medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Also it depends on its temperature and density.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">For example, at the temperature of 0 degree celsius sound travels 332 metre in a second in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">But it covers 350 m/s at 300c in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">In water sound has more than 4 21 times greater velocity than in air which is nearly 1500 m/s.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">sound moves through steel with a velocity of 5000 m/s, nearly 15 times greater than that in air.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Generally velocity of sound is the highest in solid medium and least in gaseous medium.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Stand about 20 metre from a tall building in a calm and quiet place and clap your hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">You will hear someone replying to your clapping immediately after.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">At the mouth of a deep well speak aloud downward, you will hear the same voice speaking from bellow.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">This repetition of sound is called echo.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Reflection of sound produces echo.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">It is like reflection of light in a mirror.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">This is known as reflection of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Repetition of sound due to reflection is called echo.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Reflection of sound obeys the laws of reflection of light.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The exception is, while plain, smooth and shining surfaces are good reflectors of light, extended, hard and solid surfaces are better for reflection of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">So hills, mountains and tall buildings produce echo of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Sound takes time to go to reflector and come back and that is why echo is heard some time after the sound is made.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">When we talk in a room, are the sounds of our conversation reflected by the walls?</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Yes they are but why do not we hear any echoing sound?</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In this time sound travels twice between reflector and listener.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">If the room temperature is taken as 300 C, the velocity of sound in air is about 350 m/s.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">In 101 th of a second sound covers 35 metres.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">So if the reflecting walls are at half of this distance i.e. 17.5 m, echo will be hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">However, normal room measures less than this and therefore no echo is heard.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">But in a large hall room if speeches and musical function take place you may hear the echo of those sounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Therefore the walls of cinema hall and auditorium are covered with soft load pads and the floor is covered with carpet.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Soft materials reflect little sound and absorb more, thus help control the echo.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Due to repeated reflection of sound in different layers of cloud in the sky the rumbling sound of thunder is heard.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">A bat produces high frequency sound when it flies.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">This sound is reflected by any obstacles in its way which produces echoes.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Hearing these echoes the bat avoids the obstacles on its way and flies in dark safely.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Music pleases our ears, refreshes mind and makes us cheerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">But if all the time music is played by a loudspeaker, it irritates us instead of giving pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">High volume sound is a torture to our ear.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">We can not work or pay attention to our studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Even we sometimes engage in quarrels with the person who makes this nonsense.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">A sudden loud sound startles us and pulpits our heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Loud sounds may cause a person with weak heart even to die.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Continuous loud sound damages and may rapture our ear diaphragms.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Through experiments gradual loss of hearing is found among the labourers working in a factory which produces much noise.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Those who work for ten years in a noisy environment may lose 50% of their hearing ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">It increases the risks ulcer and other intestinal diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">In brief, excessive and high sound causes harms to us physically and mentally.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">The hydraulic horn used by the motor vehicles is also very harmful.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">It is one of the reasons for creating sound pollutions in busy cities like Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">We should be aware of the dangers caused by sound pollution.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Some music shops play music very loudly all day long.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">In the streets people use mikes for various purposes such as to sell lottery tickets or medicines or to announce some events.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">These are harmful to our health.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">We must develop awareness among people regarding the adverse effects of sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">You also must not play radio, cassette player or CD player in high volume.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Do not use the earphones of your walkman all day long.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The drivers of cars have to be aware of the proper use of horns and we must avoid using hydraulic horns here and there.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">We always use sound in our day to day life.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">We use sound in our conversation, in songs and music, in the programmes of radio and television.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Besides, there are special uses of sounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Three practical uses of sound are described below.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Echo produced by reflection of sound is used to determine the depth of sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">A short, sharp sound wave is sent towards the bottom of a sea from a ship on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The sound wave is reflected at the bottom of the sea and comes back to the ship.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">In this method sound is produced by an electric machine and the reflected sound is also recorded electrically.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The interval of time between sending and receiving sound is also recorded in an automatic system.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">The sound used in this experiment is an ultrasonic sound wave because ultrasonic sound travels in a straight line, without being scattered or absorbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Doctors examine your chest by an instrument called stethoscope.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">There is a round shaped part of the instrument which doctors places on your chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">This small round shaped part contains a thin diaphragm in it which is vibrated by the movement of your heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The sound of vibration reaches to the ears of doctor by two rubber tubes attached to the round part.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">The sound goes forward through the pipe with repeated reflections.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">As the sound travels through the tube it can not spread outside and the doctor can clearly hear the sounds of your heart movements.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">All musical instruments like harmonium, piano, guitar, violin, drums etc. produce sound through vibrations of certain frequency.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">They use sounds of different frequencies for creating tunes.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Air vibration produces musical sound in flute, harmonium and piano.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">In drums and tabla vibration of the leather membrane produces sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">In sitar, guitar and violin vibration of strings make sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The quality of sound depends on its frequency.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Lower frequency sounds are flat, grave and harsh while higher frequency sounds are delicate and soft.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Men's voice is flat for lower frequency and female voice is shrill for its high frequency.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
