<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-genSci-22</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.114</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">218</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3085</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1205</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t138">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">This condition is called blindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Prevention: As already mentioned, besides senility or aging, there are other causes of blindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Some children develop cataract at birth or during their early life.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Whatever the reason, there are no specific preventive measures.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">There is only treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Till today no medicine has been discovered that can cure blindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Treatment: In the early stages some of the blurred vision can be corrected by the use of spectacles or external lens.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">When the condition has progressed, then only operative means can bring back vision.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Currently, the cataract lens is removed by surgical means and is replaced by an artificial lens, and so the patient's vision is completely restored.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Reasons: The major reason for blindness in Bangladesh is cataract of the lens, where the lens becomes opaque and does not allow light to pass.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">There are many reasons for cataract, but the major reason is senility.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Besides, injury to eye, diabetes mellitus, birth defects, any disease of the interior of the eye, and radiation may cause cataract.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Complete blindness may occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">In the past many people would with white stick lose their sight due to small pox.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Malnutrition due to diarrhoea and deficiency of vitamin A may cause blindness too.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Night blindness is another form of blindness that occurs due to deficiency of vitamin A, and is seen frequently among children.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">These days it is possible to do away with blindness due to cataract.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">All medical college hospitals in Bangladesh have eye or ophthalmology departments.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Eye specialists are available to give advice at district level hospitals too.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Without spending much money, cataract operation may be done at the eye camps, as these camps are open to all.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">At times many people suffer from conjunctivitis.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">So, it is important to know how to prevent the condition, and if afflicted how to cure it.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">The inner side of the eyelid and the outer exposed part of the eyeball is covered by a thin membrane, the conjunctiva.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">When the conjunctiva is infected, the condition is called conjunctivitis.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Inflammation of the conjunctiva may occur due to many reasons, but the major reason is infection by bacteria and viruses, or due to allergy.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Besides, there are some cause specific symptoms and signs that are mentioned below.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Bacterial Conjunctivitis: Infection of the conjunctiva of eye may oftenoccur due to bacteria.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Symptoms and Signs: Besides the above symptoms, the additional symptom in bacterial infection of the eye is the purulent discharge.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The discharge of pus in bacterial conjunctivitis is so much that the two eyelids stick together.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Delayed treatment may lead to ulceration of cornea.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Viral Conjunctivitis: Virus may cause infection of the conjunctiva too.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Symptoms and Signs: The usual symptoms are redness of eye, first one then both; pricking sensation; watering; slight swelling; and sticky discharge.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Treatment: Anyone suffering from viral conjunctivitis must stay away from others.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Articles of use like handkerchief and towel should not be used by anyone else.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Eyes should be cleaned with cotton soaked in clean warm water.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Application of medication as per physician's advice is must.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">If necessary, medicine may have to be taken orally.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Medications used by quacks like snail-water, leaf extract, rose-water must not be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Allergic Conjunctivitis: Inflammation of the conjunctiva may occur due to allergens.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Allergy may occur due to the application of eyebrow pencils, mascara, surma and kajol.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Treatment: Eyes may be washed with clean water, and physician's advice may be sought.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Cancer is a life threatening disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Among the top incurable diseases of the world, cancer is just behind Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS).</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Till today, no total cure for cancer has been discovered or invented.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The exact cause of cancer is still unknown to the health scientists.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Cancer may occur in different parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Lungs, kidney, stomach, tongue, breast are seen to be affected by cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Unhealed ulcer and tumour may turn into cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The cancer cells are different in that they multiply rapidly and use up the body's nutrition.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">In later stages, the cancer cells from one organ spread to other organs of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">In leukaemia, a form of cancer, the number of white blood cells increases to very high levels.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">These then destroy the red blood cells.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Treatment: Till today, no satisfactory treatment for cancer has been discovered.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Usually, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgical interventions are initiated either as individual or combination therapy.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">There are some ways by which cancer may be prevented.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Prevention: Experts consider that smoking, excess intake of alcohol, excess intake of fatty food are contributing factors for cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Side by side, intake of less fibre food, that is, vegetables, and less exercise increases the possibility of occurrence of cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Experts consider that the chance of developing cancer is reduced by 30 percent if only smoking and intake of tobacco is given up.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In 1981, two British scientists'Richard Hall and Richard Petro'informed that through optimum intake of vegetables, mortality due to cancer can be reduced by 33 times.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Professor Troll and other cancer experts of American Cancer Institute, University of New York have disclosed that different vegetables can prevent different cancers.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Cancer of pancreas: Eating tomatoes, watermelons, lemons, oranges, shaddocks and so on can prevent cancer of pancreas.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Cancer of kidney and urinary bladder: Soya beans, beans, peas, lentils, and other kinds of beans can prevent cancer of kidney and urinary bladder.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Breast and brain cancer: Cabbages have a compound Xenisten which helps to prevent cancer of breast, prostate and brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In conclusion it may be said that, though there is no specific treatment, there are ways to prevent cancer.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Therefore, the daily diet of a person should contain the above mentioned vegetables and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Within the pancreas are ductless glands called islets of Langerhan.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">These glands secrete the hormone insulin.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">This hormone regulates the metabolism of carbohydrates.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The kidney in turn has to excrete the excess glucose, so the urine contains glucose too.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">This condition is called diabetes mellitus.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">If the fasting serum level of glucose is more than 7.8 millimoles per litre (mmol./L),</sent>
				<sent id ="72">or if the serum glucose level two hours after meal is above 11.1 mmol./L then the condition is diagnosed as diabetes mellitus.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The disease is usually genetically transmitted, or occurs under the influence of the environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Diabetes mellitus is not an infectious or contagious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Symptoms and Signs: One or more of the following symptoms and signs may be found in a patient suffering from diabetes mellitus.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Risk of Developing Diabetes Mellitus: Anyone at anytime may suffer from diabetes mellitus, but the following persons have a greater risk of developing the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">If a close family member, like parent or sibling, is suffering from diabetes mellitus then there is a greater chance of developing the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Overweight or obese persons have greater chance of developing diabetes mellitus.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">People who are sedentary workers, that is do not work much physically or exercise regularly, have a chance to develop diabetes mellitus.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Treatment: Diabetes mellitus cannot be totally cured, but can be kept under control.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">There are three basic lines of treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">In about 60 percent of the newly diagnosed cases, discipline and dietary restrictions help to keep the condition under control.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">About 20 percent of the patients require dietary restrictions and intake of oral medications to keep the blood glucose level within normal limits.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">In about another 20 percent cases, dietary restrictions along with injectable insulin is required to keep the conditions normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">So the measures for the control of diabetes mellitus is 3D's.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">That is, discipline, diet, and drug.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Discipline: This is the basic action.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">A diabetic patient has to be disciplined in every activity in life.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Besides, attention has to be given to regular intake of adequate quantity of balanced diet, regular exercise, cleanliness, and care of foot and nails.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Regular checking of urinary glucose, and consulting physician if any problem arises.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Diet: Adequate and balanced diet should be taken, and sweet items should be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Drug: On physician's advice, oral drugs or injectable insulin should be taken regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Most people are acquainted with the term jaundice.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Jaundice is not a disease it is a symptom only.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The presence of bilirubin in the blood causes yellow colouration of the skin, sclera and urine.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">This condition is known as jaundice.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Of the infections, infection by hepatitis B virus is more dangerous.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">These infections cause hepatocellular jaundice.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Treatment: There is no specific drug to cure jaundice.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Patients can be treated at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Complete rest is essential for the management of the condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Paracetamol or sedatives should not be given to the patient without consulting a physician.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Fatty food should not be given to the patient, rather a balanced diet with sufficient protein and carbohydrate, and fruit juice may be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">These days, experts do not prescribe glucose water or sugarcane juice.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">In obstructive jaundice, surgical intervention may be needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Prevention: Hepatitis A virus spreads through food and faeces.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">So, sanitary disposal of faeces, together with frequent hand washing with soap may prevent hepatitis A virus infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Hepatitis B virus spreads through sexual contact with infected person, sharing of needles with infected person, and transfusion of infected blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">There is no particular definition of high blood pressure; generally it is the pressure that is higher than what is normal for a particular age.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Blood pressure may rise up to 200/120 mm of Hg, when it is considered a medical emergency.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Complication: In high blood pressure there can be damage to three important organs of the body'heart, brain and kidney.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">If the blood pressure is not regulated, it may cause heart attack, brain stroke leading to paralysis, and kidney failure.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Besides, the eye may be seriously affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Causes of Hypertension: To the specialists of medicine the exact reason for raised blood pressure is unclear.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In about 90 percent cases, the reason is unknown and is termed by specialists as primary or essential hypertension.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">In about 10 percent cases the reason can be identified, and in most cases it is due to kidney causes.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Other glands may also be responsible.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The blood pressure may be raised during pregnancy.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Prevention: The following measures may be taken to keep the blood pressure within normal limits.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Early detection and treatment of hypertension should be done, or else there may be paralysis, or failure of heart and/or kidney.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Regular measured amount of exercise must be done together with taking of a measured balanced diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Giving up of smoking, and stopping of taking fatty diet may help avoid hypertension.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Regular check-up of blood pressure under physician's supervision.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Active treatment helps to reduce the blood pressure and saves the patient from paralysis, and heart and kidney diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Must not take or give up medications without physician's advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Foods like marine fish, fowl meat, white part of egg, fat free milk, and lentil should be included in the daily diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">AIDS is the one of the most dangerous diseases of the world by which a large number of people are being infected today.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">First AIDS patient was found in Newyork and California of USA.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">There are remedies and treatment for different diseases, but till today no medicine is available to cure AIDS completely.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">So the ultimate result of AIDS is sure death.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">AIDS disease is caused in human body by the attack of one kind of virus named HIV- Human Immunodeficiency Virus.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">It is one kind Retro Virus (Picture).</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Which enters in human body through some specific ways and destroys the defence or immune system.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">So, it is called AIDS (Acquired I mmune Deficiency Syndrome).</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The last stage of the HIV infection is AIDS.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">AIDS infected person is easily attacked by other diseases such as Pneumonia, Tuberculosis, Diarrhoea etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">There is no effective treatment of this silent killer disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Its ultimate fate is death.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The virus is round shaped and its pin headed upper portion having the glyco protein materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">In side the round shape hexagonal capside RNA and Reverse transcrepts are located.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The following ways are the usual modes of transmission of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Transmission of blood from HIV infected person and through the use of instruments used in medical operation.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Transmission of blood from a HIV infected person to a healthy person may transmit the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Use of needle, syringe or other medical/surgical operation related instruments.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Transplacement of HIV infected organ or tissue in the body of a healthy person.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Unethical and unprotected physical relation of human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">A newborn baby of HIV infected mother may also be infected during pregnancy, delivery or breastfeeding time.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Loose motion or diarrhoea for more than two months.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Fungal infection of different parts of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Swelling of lymph glands.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">More than one symptom may be found in the body of on AIDS infected person.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">It may be mentioned here that if these sort of symptoms are found it may not be only for AIDS.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Generally sexual diseases are those diseases which is spread through unethical immoral relationship between male and female partners.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">As for example- Gonorrhoea, Syphilis, Genital herpes etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">It is important to note that the people, already having sexual diseases have possibility of HIV infection higher than the people without any sexual disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">So far there is no known treatment for AIDS.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">There is no effective medicine discovered in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The only method of safety is utmost careful living.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Following are the main preventive measures against AIDS.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Our daily activities of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Should be maintained according to the social values and religious bindings.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">If in any emergency case blood transfusion is needed then previous examination of the blood to be taken must be performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Every time new needle and syringe should be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Before any surgical operation/intervention all the instruments must be properly sterilized or disinfected.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Before taking any children or before conception an HIV infected mother should consult and act according to the suggestions of an experienced Doctor.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Physical relationship among male and female should be established on the basis of faithfullness, legality and protection to ensure safety against AIDS.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The catastrophic result of HIV and AIDS should be circulated though media and other means to develop awareness amongst the mass people.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">To control and resist the AIDS and HIV everybody should be very much confident and strong minded.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">During the age of puberty sexual desire become very strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Adolescent boys and girls become curious about the change of physical condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">They try to mitigate it through various abnormal ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">But they don't know about the bad effects.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">To get rid of this curiosity many times they face different types of problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">They can restrain themselves if they get the proper knowledge of their physical change.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">So, the adolescent boys and girls must be very confident and strong minded.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">As a result if any friend or company gives any indecent hints or behaves wrongly dirty he/she can protest and stop them.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">To live they should know about the dangerous fate of AIDS infected patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Therefore, he/she should not surrender to the pressure of bad company or friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">We must be very positive and strong minded.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">And we will also know about the protection against AIDS.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">At the end of the year 2007, the total HIV/AIDS patients of the world was around 33.3 million.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Now everyday near about 11,000 male & female are being infected by HIV in the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">This number of HIV/AIDS affected people is increasing everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Its main cause is their physical change and carnal/emotion/desire of the age.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">More over other socio- economic condition and different causes such as.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">AIDS/HIV patients are also increasing in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">But still it is limited and not that much common among the general people.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Through use of same needle and syringe among the drug addicted people HIV infection spreading rate is very high and reached is at epidemic stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Major portion of this drug addicted people are young and between the age of 15 to 25 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">According to the information of government source in 2007 total HIV infected patients are near about 7500 in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Under this circumstance we will have to be very careful right now and follow the prevention rules of HIV very strictly and properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It is high time for the preparation of more effective programme to prevent the HIV/AIDS.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Other wise within very sort time HIV prevalence rate will be very high and control procedure may become very difficult.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">But it is the abuse or misuse of the addictive substance that is of concern.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The commonly used addictive substances in Bangladesh are ganja, bhang, charas, affim, morphine, heroin, cocaine, and alcohol.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Besides, products prepared from cocaine and affim such as pethedine, thirain, codeine, barbiturate and lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) are also used as addictive substance.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Methadone and diazepam are also addictive substances.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Drug abuse is the self administration of a drug for non-medical reason.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">This may be in quantities and frequencies which may impair an individual's ability to function effectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Drug abuse may also result in social, physical or emotional harm.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Frequent intake of addictive drugs may lead to drug dependence.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Drug dependence a psychic or physical state that results from the interaction between a drug and the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">This interaction is characterised by some behavioural response.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The behavioural response may be manifested as a compulsion to take the drug on a continuous or periodic basis in order to experience its effects.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Sometimes such drugs are taken to avoid the discomfort of its absence in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">A person may be dependent on more than one drug.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Reason: There are many reasons for drug addiction in humans.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">The reasons for addiction can be considered from environmental, social, mental, and drug related perspectives.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Mental: Features like excitement, severe depression, aggressive behaviour, uncoordinated behaviour, and suicidal tendency may be observed.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Social: Disinterest in life and work, familial disharmony, tendency to commit crimes, and generally considered as a socially disliked person.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Control and Prevention: Some measures may help one to get out of addiction.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">There are four regional offices at Dhaka, Chittagong, Rajshahi, and Khulna to work towards reducing abuse of drugs in the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">The major contributions of the organisation are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">To stop abuse and illegal trafficking of drugs the Narcotic Control Law of 1990 was introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">This has the provision of punishment for the abusers and traffickers in different forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Under the Directorate there are treatment and rehabilitation centres for drug addicts at Dhaka, Chittagong, Rajshahi, and Khulna.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The centre at Dhaka has both indoor and outdoor treatment facilities, while the other three have only outdoor service facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Till recent past, about 1,500 persons have been treated at these centres.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
