<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-hind-8</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.531</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">476</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5007</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1514</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t156">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">To have a bath in the river Ganga makes our body and mind fresh and pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Having bath in the Ganga at the Churhamani Yoga one becomes free from sin and gets redemption.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Do you know what Churhamani Yoga is ?</sent>
				<sent id ="4">If solar on lunar eclipse happens on any Sunday, it is called Churhamani yoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Haridwar is a holy place, as pilgrimage (Ghat station or place of having bath of the Ganga) was there.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">At one Churhamani yoga the devotees gathered there to achieve virtue through the bath in the river Ganga.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The Ghat of Gganga in Haridwar had been over crowded.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">It was, as if, a competetion of having bath earlier than other devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Looking at the crowd of the devotees, a question arose in the mind of Devi Parvati.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">To have bath in the river Ganga makes one free from sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">So many devotees are having their bath here.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Would all of them be free from sin? Lord Shiva who is able to read the feeling of anybody, smiled in mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The great Yogi and the great humorous god wanted that Parvati would get the answer from example.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">So he said to Parvati, - Observe it yourself.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">But you are to take some trouble.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Looking at your many of the persons here who are desirous to achieve virtue will ask you, Why are you weeping oh good woman?</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Then you will tell them, My husband expired just now.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">His cremation must be performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">I am unable to do it alone, please help me.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">But there is a condition: He, who is sinful, is prohibited to touch the dead body.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Accordingly the plan was materialised.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">She began to weep.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Many men were coming and are asking her the cause of her weeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Parvati was saying, - Please help me for the cremation of my husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">But be aware of it, a sinful person is prohibited to touch the dead body.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">So many persons were going back after having their bath in the river Ganga.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">In the mean time, there came a sinful person.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He comitted a lot of sin in his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Yet he repented for his sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">He had his bath in the Ganga every day and eulogized the Ganga with devotion- Oh pure Ganga, make me virtuous.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Please take away my sins through your flow and oh mother Ganga, free me from sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">That sinful man also asked Parvati, - why are you weeping?</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Parvati then told the cause of her weeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The sinful man thought that bath in the Ganga at the Churhamani Yoga frees one from sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Just now he would go to have his bath in the Ganga and this would bring him redemption from sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Then he would be able to touch the dead body without any hesitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He exclaimed, what a poor woman she is!</sent>
				<sent id ="38">In what an adverse situation she is!</sent>
				<sent id ="39">He went to the Ganga, had his bath and prayed to her prasing verses.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">He chanted in praise of mother Ganga.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Oh Ganga, oh mother, you are the saver of three world (heaven, earth and world under the earth), please take away all of my sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">I am eager to help in the cremation of the dead body of the husband of this woman, who has been widow just now.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Bless me so that I may perform this deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Let us take the dead body of your husband for cremation, my lady.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Where the dead body was!</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Where the widow!</sent>
				<sent id ="47">where her lamentation!</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Lord shiva and Parvati disappeared all on a sudden.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They are again on the air route.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Lord Shiva, then, asked Parvati, Hello, have you got your answer?</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Those who could not dare to touch the dead body, have no firm faith and reverence.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">They could not believe firmly that having bath in the Ganga at the Churhamani Yoga causes redemption from sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">To have bath only in the Ganga will not make one free from sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">One must possess faith and reverence in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The show of the performance of rituals brings no result.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">To be free from sin and to achieve virtue faith and reverence is required.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Lord Shiva said, Right you are.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Lord Shiva and Parvati stopped their talking.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The heavenly air craft was flying ahead through the lump of clouds towards Vaikuntha.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">There lived an adolescent boy in a village.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">His name was Shridhara.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">He was a naughty boy and he was very strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">His contemporary play mates could not be his equal in strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">At any time he began to quarrel and they began to beat each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Yet he was very intelligent.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">He used to tell a lie in such way that everybody believed that it was a fact.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">For such a naughty boy the villagers became very annoyed and complained against him to his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">But he was beyond the control of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Moreover, he had been habituated in theft and had turned to a skilled one so skilled that no body could catch him.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">He did not stay at home for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">He wandered hither and thither.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In course of such a wandering, once he reached the holy place of pilgrimage- Vadarik ashrama, i.e. the hermit of Vadari.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">He went to a temple there and saw that there was a necklace made of pearl in the neck of an idol.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">A strong greed grew in him and he desired to get that.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He waited till the night came.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">At deep night he stole the pearl-necklace from the neck of the idol very tactfully and went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Putting that beautiful necklace on the neck he was going on.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Wandering hither and thither he arrived at a hermitage of a saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He saw that in a corner there were some wonded beasts with broken hands and legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">A room was there nearby.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">He peeped into the room and saw that there were some diseased birds and the saint of that hermitage was nursing them.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">For some days together he observed that the saint remained busy in nursing those sick and diseased beasts and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Looking and looking this monotonous scene he became tired and being annoyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">One day he asked the saint, Oh, reverend saint, what a non-befitting work you are doing!</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Is it a hermitage or an animal-care centre?</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Neglecting religious rituals and meditation you have been nursing the beasts and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">If you have an urge for surving the beasts and birds, you would better remain a family man.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">What is the use to be a hermit!</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The saint answered, Listen, my boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">To love a living being is as good as to love God.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">So the aode or temple of God and the house of the animals bear equal value to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">However, would you please help me, my boy?</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Shridhara said, Well, tell me please, what is to be done?</sent>
				<sent id ="94">This pearl is dropped from the necklace of a some one.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">I have heard that the owner of the necklace has come from Vadarikashrama and he is on his way home.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">I like to hand over this pearl to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">If, on the way, you meet him, you will please give it to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Taking the pearl in his hand Shridhara saw that the pearl was dropped from his own necklace.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">When and how, it was not noticed by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Shridhara became astonished.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The mind of the saint which was free from greed and his relentless service for the living beings made him as if, a new man.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He said, How could you come to know that the pearl has dropped from my necklace?</sent>
				<sent id ="103">But the fact is this that it is not mine.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">I have stolen it form the necklace of an idol of god placed in a temple of Vadarikashrama.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">What I should do!</sent>
				<sent id ="106">telling this he began to weep.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The saint understood that the ice was about to be melted.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">In a vicious heart virtue was growing.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">He said with deep affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Never mind, my boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">It is not true that if one commits sin once, he has to do it through out his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Follow my boy, follow the way of virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Give the necklace back to god.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">He will surely forgive you.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">At that moment Shridhara started for Vadarikashrama and put that neklace on the neck of the idol of god.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">He lay prostrate in obeisance infront of god and said aside on weeping, -Oh, Lord, please forgive me, forgive me please.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">I will never do any vicious act.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Giving back the necklace Shridhara returned to the hermitage of that saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The saint had his bath every day early in the moring.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Shridhara also began to have his bath everyday early in the morning.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The saint sat under the Tulsi plant (i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">basil) and recited aside something which was not known to Shridhara.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He also said aside Oh Lord, make me honest, make me honest, Lord! the saint nursed the beasts and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">He assisted the saint in that work.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">One day Shridhara was walking on the bank of a river.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He then, saw that a man threw a kitten into the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The kitten was about to drown.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Shridhara felt for the kitten.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He jumped into the river and picked the distressed kitten up from the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">He returned to the hermitage and told the saint, Reverend Father, I have picked this kitten up from the stream of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">The saint said, - Very good, my boy, the suffering of the living being is that of God Himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Swab its body and give it some milk to drink, my boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">An event of another day.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">A beggar died of Cholera.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Out of fear and hatred none went to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">But Shridhara took the dead body on his shoulder and went to the cremation ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Then he finished the cremation of the dead body and came back.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">In this way, Shridhara dedicated him to the service of the distressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The saint initiated him to a religious order and renamed him as Sevananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">After this, one day Sevananda went to his own village.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Nobody could recognize him except his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">You are Shridhara, I am sure!</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Yes my dear mother!</sent>
				<sent id ="144">I am your son, Shridhara.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Now I am renamed as Sevananda by a saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Then he told the whole matter in detail.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">All the villagers became happy for the change in him caused by the company of the saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Everybody thanked him very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Sevananda saluted his parents with great respect and went back again to the hermitage of that saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Keeping good company, a thief and rouge was turned into a saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">In the Satya age, there lived a pious king.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">His name was Amvarisha.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">His father Nabhasa was also a pious one.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Being a king, Amvarisha, followed the ideal of his father, passed an ordinary life like an ascetic.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">For this people called him as Rajarshi i.e. a king who leads an ascetic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He looked after his people as his son.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">There was no unholy practice in his kingdom.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">There was no scarcity of anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">There peace and happiness always remained.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">But he never used that chakra to attack the kingdom of others, for wealth or illusion.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Amvarisha became absorbed in the intensive meditation of Lord Shrivishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">On the other hand, he performed the duty as king with proper care.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Once he was performing the ritual Ekadashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">At the same time on the next thithi.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The name of this ritual in Paran.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">However, it was a regular practice of Ambarish to have his meal after entertaining at least one guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">But unfortunately at that Dwadashi no guest came.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Then the king fell into the horns of dilemma: Without entertaining a guest would not have his meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">One the other hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Dwadashi was about to be expired.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">He had to break his fasting within the Dwadashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He took a drop of water on his hand for breaking the fasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">At that time Rishi (saint) Durvasa arrived there.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He was quick tempered.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">For a trifling cause he used to get angry and when he had got angry, he cursed the concerned person.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Durvasa said, Oh the king, you should not have your drink keeping me in fasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Amvarisha said, Of course not, I am rewarded to day, oh great sage.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Because to day I have received an honourable guest like you.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Dwadashi is about to expire.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Please have your bath within the Dwadashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">You are well-known with the ritual rules and customs.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">So What shall I explain more.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Durvasa went to have his bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Some time passed.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Dwadashi was at the eleventh hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">But Durvasa was yet to come back.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">In fact, he was testing the strength and intensity of devotion of the king Amvarisha.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">The royal sage, Amvarisha was in hesitation under the present situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">It was improper to have meal keeping the guest unfed.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">On the other hand, if Paran was not done within the Dwadashi tithi he would be condemned to hell.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Then the Royal sage Amvarisha followed the rules of the scriptures.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It is stated in the scriptures that to drink water does not break the fasting, again, one may break his fasting by drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">So he decided that he would follow the rules of the scriptures and by drinking a little water he would break his fasting within Dwadashi.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Remembering Lord Vishnu by uttering his name, Amvarisha took a little water in mouth, just then the great sage Durvasa arrived there.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Durvasa became very angry to see that the king was drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Keeping the guest unfed, you have finished your Paran!</sent>
				<sent id ="197">You are called Rajarshi!</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Such is your principle!</sent>
				<sent id ="199">I think, being a devotee of Lord Vishnu you care nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Please be quiet, the revered sage, please be quiet.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Telling this he had torn one tuft of his matted hair.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">At the same time a terrible creature who was made of fire arrived in front of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">There was a falchion in his hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The fiery creature advanced to attack Amvarisha.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Oh Lord Vishnu, please ignore my offence, the situation compels me to express my wrath.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Uttering this aside king Amvarisha saluted Lord Vishnu in imagination one again and called Sudarshana Chakra!.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">It is the Sudarshanachakra of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">It is very powerful.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It never fails its aim.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Durvasa's efforts failed.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">The Sudasrhana Chakra did not stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">It rushed towards Durvasa.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Durvasa began to run out of fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Sudarshana Chakra followed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">To any place of the world where Durvasa went, he was followed by Sudarshana.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Finding no alternative, he went to god Brahma.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Brahma said to him, I am unable to save you.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The Chakra of Vishnu is not under my control, you have dishonoured a devotee of Vishnu, I am unable to protect you.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Then Durvasa went to god Shiva's abode.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">God Shiva also spoke in the same language- you have done harm to a devotee of Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">I have not the ability to save you, go to Vishnu, beg his shelter.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">He is an image of welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">He will do something for your good.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Then the distressed Brahmarshi went to Lord Vishnu at Vaikuntha.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Shrivishnu said, Oh, Brahmin, I am under the control of my devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">My devotees are my favourite.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The saints and devotees have captured my heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">So please take the shelter of my devotee.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">My devotee, Amvarisha will not remain angry with you I am sure of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Then Durvasa went to that Ambarish and said to him, Oh, Rajarshi, please save me, I could not understand about the greatness of a devotee.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Going to test you, I have fallen in such a disgraceful condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Rajarshi Amvarisha then, embraced the Brahmarshi Durvasa and said, - You are a Brahmarshi.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Let me not to do any offence to you, sir.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">For self resistance I was rather compelled to call the Sudarshana Chakra.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Rajarshi then eulogized Sudarshana Chakra and pacified it.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Then Sudarshana Chakra went back to Shrivishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">The king, Amvarisha was still fasting .</sent>
				<sent id ="238">He entertaine the guest Durvasa with meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Brahmarshi Durvasa said, Oh, Rajarshi, you, please, now have your meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Rajarshi said, I am grateful as my guest is satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">He then, had his meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Brahmarshi Durvasa went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">The Devotee became victorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Long ago, there was a boy Brahmin by caste, had been having his education remaining in the abode of his teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">His name was Vopadeva.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Besides his studies, he looked after the cattle of his teacher and supervise the fair of farming.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">In these aspects he had proper care and skill.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">But in his main purpose, the studies, he was less attentive.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Many years passed.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Vopadeva could not be able to learn the introductory knowledge of grammar like Sandhi, (Euphonic combination).</sent>
				<sent id ="251">His teacher, one day, became angry and said, Vopadeva, my boy, you are here for many years.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Those who come after you, went back having there education.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">But you can not proceed, if you do not want to carry on your studies, what is the use to lose time?</sent>
				<sent id ="254">If you are not in a position to set your mind in study, it is better to go back home.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Telling this, the teacher went elsewhere making a hard sound of his wooden sandal.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Vopadeva became very unhappy.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">The teacher was willing to drive him out, he thought.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">On the next night he left the house of his teacher and wandered hither and thither Village after village, field after field.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">He passed market places and business centres.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">He had his meal where and when it was available and slept at a market place or under tree or elsewhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">One evening, Vopadeva was passing by the bank of a large tank.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The tank was wide.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Its water was as clear as the eyes of the crows.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">There was a brick built Ghat (i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">place for having bath or washing).</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Vopadeva felt a strong urge of thirst.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">He stopped his walking there to drink water.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">He went down to the Ghat.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Descending through the steps of the ghat, he stopped on the nearest step of the water of the tank.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">He sat there and took water in the fold of the palm of his hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">He drank it.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">His thirst went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Just then he was going upwards, suddenly he saw that there was a hole on a step.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">It was almost round but not so deep.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Why there was such a hole on a brick built step, he thought.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">In the mean time, a woman came there.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">There was a pitcher on her waist.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">She will take water.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">She descended downwards and put her pitcher on that hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">When the woman was about to leave the place.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Vopadeva could not suppress his curiosity.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">The hole is newly made I see.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">The woman said, Oh, about this matter!</sent>
				<sent id ="284">then you can say that I have made the hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">How is it?</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Everyday I put my pitcher on this place.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">So due to rubbing and being decayed the hole is formed.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Saying this the woman went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Vopadeva remained still looking at that hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">He thought A brick-built step is decayed by repeated rubbing, I an also be educated if I make effort's.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">I shall start my studies again.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">I will make my efforts again!</sent>
				<sent id ="293">I will try again and again.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Vopadeva stood up and walked on quick steps.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">No, this time it was not aimless wandering, his destination was the abode of his teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">He reached infront of his teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Oh, you are here!</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The teacher became very glad to see him.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">As he had been living there for a long time, so an affection grew in the mind of the teacher for him.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">The teacher gladly accepted him.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">With deep respect Vopadeva bowed down and saluted his teacher touching his feet by the hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">This time Vopadeva was, as if, a new one!</sent>
				<sent id ="303">What a deep attention!</sent>
				<sent id ="304">What a strong perseverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Even his teacher became captivated.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Within a very short period he became a properly educated man.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Then he returned home.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Every body became charmed at the depth of the knowledge of Vopadeva.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">And Vopadeva himself, aiming at the slow learners, wrote his well known book of grammar.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Its name was Mugdhavodha Vyakarana.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Besides, he wrote some other books including kavikalpadruma.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">If you fail once, then try hundred times.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">This is what is called perseverance carry on.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">If one sticks to any work with patience, success is must.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">At the root of the changes in the life of Vopadeva there was this perseverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Perseverance was the key to his success.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Navadwipa is a place of pilgrimage, a centre for meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Once in this Navadwipa, there lived a devoted Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">His name was Krishna Kamal Goswami.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">His livelihood was lila kirtana i.e. to sing the songs in praise of Lord Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">His family consisted of his wife and four sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">There were the images of deity Radha and Govinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Every day food was offered and arati was done (arati means greeting a deity by waving a lamp, fan etc).</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Guests were entertained when they came.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">Being a house holder he performed all the family duties in the mood of Nishkama (i.e. he did his work desiring nothing for himself).</sent>
				<sent id ="326">One day fire caught the prayer room i.e. the room for the worship of gods and goddesses burnt fully.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">His youngest son said, Father, the room for worship has burnt!</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Krishnakamal answered, - Dont be sad, my boy, he who is the owner of the room has burnt it.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">If he feels it necessary then he will rebuild it.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">An event of another day.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">His wife, getting up from early in the morning, saw that the door of the prayer room had remained open.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">All were stolen.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">Now what is the way out- she thought.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">He went to krishnakamal running.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Hello, hear me.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">The ornaments of gods and goddesses have been stolen, the door of the prayer room is open.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">The ornaments were of a large amount of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">What is the way out, now?</sent>
				<sent id ="339">The wife of Krishnakamal began to weep.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">But Krishnakamal remained unhanged.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">He consoled his wife and said, Why are you weeping?</sent>
				<sent id ="342">Perhaps Radhagovinda are not willing to put on ornaments.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">So they gave those up.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">We have nothing to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">If they become willing to put on ornament again, they will manage the means.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Karishnakamal wandered in so many places and performed Kirtana songs.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">The story of the deeds of Radhagovinda was narrated and sung by him with his sweet voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">He became passionate when he uttered the words oh Krishna, oh Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">It was not only a song but it was the expression of the overwhelming sentiment out of devotion and meditation of God through the music.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Krishnakamal was outside of his house for long six months.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">One of his fan asked him,- Sir, you are out of home for a long time-six months at a stress.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">How are the household works being performed?</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Do you not feel anxiety?</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Krishnakamal smiled and said, - My home?</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Where is my home, dear?</sent>
				<sent id ="356">I have no house.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">The home is of Radhagovinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Yes, the servants of Radhagovinda remain at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Who are they?</sent>
				<sent id ="360">My wife and children.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">One day, Krishnakamal's wife told Krishnakamal 'you are passing your life by singing kirtana.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Do you count that seventy five years of the life have passed?</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Now it is the proper time to adopt ascetic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Krishnakamal answered, That's right but perhaps you know that sannyasa does not mean to go to forest discarding the family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">In its real sense Sannyasa means the giving up of the desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">If desire is left, family life and ascetic life become equal.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">The wife of Krishnakamal became charmed and kept looking at Krishnakamal.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Krishnakamal continued this house, this room, this family or anything is of Radhagovinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">We are dependent on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">One day, Krishnakamal's wife told him-Rice is scarce in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">How is the food of Gods to be offered.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Krishnakanal smiled and said, It is known to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">God will manage his food.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Just then from the village nearby a devotee named Premananda arrived there.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">He said, Sir, tomorrow please perform kirtana at the ground near the temple of the goddess Shasthi.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">I am paying you taka twenty in advance.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">Please take it.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">In this way, Radhagoinda managed himself the food to be offered to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Krishnakamal was bed-ridden.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">He could understand that it was his last stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">He would never get up.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">The call of the next world was knocking at the door.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">His sons were weeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">He said to them, Why are you weeping my boys?</sent>
				<sent id ="385">I have looked after you taking you as the gift of Radhagovinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">You should weep for Radhagovinda and not for me.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">Radhagovinda will bless you.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Thus the life of a greatman came to an end who followed a life of an ascetic living in the domestic life.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Long long ago, there lived a professor named Arjun Mishra.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">He was a great scholar, and at the same time, he was a devotee.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">But he was very poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">What he received as alms, he maintained his family by that.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">He passed his days in meditation and study.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">Arjuna Mishra wrote an explanatory note on the Gita.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">His pen was stopped by him when he came to the 22nd shlokas (verse) of 9th chapter.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">The point of stumble of the verse was the word Vahamyaham.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">God may award gift, but it is not proper that he carries the load of the devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">At that time there was no printing system like this modern age.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Those who copied from one manuscript and made a number of copies were called the Lipikarai.e. the copyist.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">At the time of writing, to make error was natural.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">So Arjuna Mishra thought that it was the mistake of the copyist.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">God awards us gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">That's why he says that Dadamyaham I award gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">He corrected the manuscript which was used as text.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">He struck off Vahamyaham, in that place wrote Dadamyaham.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">Therefore the means stood to I award gift instead of I carry the load.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">After this one day pandit Arjun Mishra fell in a distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">He wandered in so many places but got nothing as alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">There were five to six dependants in his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">All of them would have to starve.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">There was a shady tree nearby.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Arjun Mishra sat down under that tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">He imagined the faces of his wife and children stricken with sorrow and hunger.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Then he began to utter the name of God with earnest devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Eventually he felt asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">All on a sudden he woke up and saw that it was evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">I have fallen asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">What's the matter?</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Why are you too late?</sent>
				<sent id ="420">Here I have offered food to the deity and awaiting for you, said his wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Offering food to the deity!</sent>
				<sent id ="422">Arjun Mishra thought that for his abnormal late, his wife had ridicule him.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">I have got nothing as alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Today-Lord Shrihari has not arranged anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">The wife of the pandit as if fell down from the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">What are you talking about?</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Sending so many things to be used as food, you are talking like this.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Are you mad? Arjun Mishra said, What are you telling?</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Yes, two handsome boys came and gave a huge quantity of various commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">They said that you had gone to the royal palace and the gift has come from there.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">All those things were carried y those two handsome boys.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">They brought one lot and then ran to bring another one.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Our room is full of so many things.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">Please come and you will see.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Being astonished Arjun Mishara remained standing.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">His wife said again Suddenly I saw blood at their back.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">I asked them, the cause of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">They said that they had been beaten by your because they were not able to bear loads, you have told them.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">Arjun Mishra became spell-bound.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">Though they are of tender age, they have unlimited strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">What did happen then?</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Arjun Mishra asked his wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">She said, - Then I told them that I would wash your wound and arrange bandage over it.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">You would not go unless you had your meal.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">But they did not agree at all.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">Did you ask where their residence is?</sent>
				<sent id ="447">I did that.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">They answered that their residence is in cow herd's area.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">They feed the cattle in the forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">One of them was black and the other was very bright.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">Both of them were very beautiful to look at.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">Eyes are satisfied to see them.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">But you caused to bear loads by such boys and you beat them again.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">I think your head is off due to poverty, grief and suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">Trears rolled down from Arjun Misrha's eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">After some time, he said very softly I have not gone to the royal palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">Even I have not got any alms.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">I rather suffered thinking your faces stricken with starvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">I sat under a tree and uttering the name of God I fell asleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">When I woke up I saw that it was evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">I thought that you were making fun of my delay.</sent>
				<sent id ="462">Then? asked his wife with astonishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="463">You are very lucky, my dear.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Those boys were none.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">They were Lord Shrikrishan and his elder brother reverend Balarama.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">In the guise of boys they came to carry my load.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">I am an ill fated man.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">So I failed to see them.</sent>
				<sent id ="469">And that matter of hurt?</sent>
				<sent id ="470">I could understand.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">The gita is as good as the body of Lord Shri Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">To strike of a word from the Gita is as good as a hurt to the body of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">That is why blood is found on the back of Krishna and Balarama.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">Oh Krishna, oh krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Uttering the name of Lord krishna, Arjun Mishra opened the manuscript of the Gita and struck off the word, Dadamyaham and again put Vahamyaham there.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">If a devotee serves God, God serves him in return and God also carries the load of the devotees.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
