<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-hind-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.469</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">290</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3296</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1151</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t154">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The knowledge about morality is known as ethics or the study of morality.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Morality means some rules and regulations for the welfare of man and society.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">There is a close relation between morality and religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Morality is reflected on religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">On the other hand religion is traceable in morality.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Service, devotion, love, kindness, magnanimity, humanism, dutifulness, sacrifice etc. are different components of morality.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Now we will discuss some aspects of morality, namely-service, devotion, affection and kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The term service carries different meanings.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">It means waiting or attending e.g. attending the guests or living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">It may mean nursing e.g. nursing the patients.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Another aspect of service is Prayer e.g. pray to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Precisely, Service means the virtuous activities to be performed for the satisfaction to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Services may be rendered by donation on charity.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">But charitable deeds and service does not always bear the same connotation.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">In case of Charity anything in kind is to be offered.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">But service may be rendered physically or mentally also without giving any materials.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Service may be rendered by giving suggestions, showing sympathy, sharing the trouble in difficult situations applying many other ways likewise.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">We know Ishwara stays within the living beings as their souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">So if anybody serves the living being, he serves God.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Therefore we will serve the living beings and the world for their walfare and for the salvation of the self.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">In this way Ishwara will be pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">If Ishwara becomes pleased, we will get rid from all sorts of sufferings and get peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Once Yudhisthira, the emperor initiated a Yajna (i.e.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">He was donating open handedcy manner simultaneously.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The distributors were serving food sufficiently and peoples were eating food coming in groups.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">A groups had just finished their meal and got up, another group took their seats.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Precious wealth including jewels was lumped in rows.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Those who had asked, were donated from the lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">All on a sudden, a mongoose arrived at the altar and rolled itself repeatedly there.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Do you know mongooes? Mongoose is an animal named Veji.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The mother is more astonished that the face and a half of its body became golden.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">What was the matter?</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Such peculiar mongoose was never seen!</sent>
				<sent id ="34">The mongoose was asked curiously, Why is your face and a half of your body golden?</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The mongoose began to tell- There was a poor Brahmin in Kurukshetra.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">He had no greed for wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He spent his time in study and religious activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He managed his livilihood by what he could earn.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">One day he procured some barley at the cost of earnest effort.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The wife of the Brahmin powdered that barley and divided into four parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">The Brahmin, his wife, their son and daughter-in-law would get one part each.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">In the mean time, a guest arrived there.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">The Brahmin stood up hurriedly and gave water to wash his hands and face, a seat and drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The tiredness of the guest went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Then the Brahmin gave the barley his own part to the guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Oh, for a guest so meagre an amount!</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Then the wife of the Brahmin offered her part of the barely to the guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">But the guest's hunger was not satisfied with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Then the son of the Brahmin gave the guest his part.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The guest asked.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">One looked at another.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Yes, but that is the part of the daughter in-law, if it is given, she will suffer from starving.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Though the daughter-in-law was tender aged, she was influenced by the family tradition of service.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">She said, father it is you who has taught us that service is a great virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">A guest is similar to Lord Narayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">I have decided to serve the guest offering my part of the barley.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">The Brahmin became very glad to hear the words of the daughter-in-law.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">He then, poured the part of daughter-in-law on the dish of the guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The guest became satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">He stood up. Why are all the directions lighted?</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Of what is the light, where is the guest?</sent>
				<sent id ="62">All of them saw that in the place of the guest the god Dharma was standing there in front of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Being satisfied at the service of the devotees, the god Dharma appeared before them.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Some powders of barley struck to the dish of the guest.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">As soon as my face and a half of my body touched that barley, they turned into gold.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Since then I have been wandering from one place to another place, from one sacrificial place to other sacrificial place.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">My such effort is to see the other half of my body would become golden.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Listening to the story of the glory of service by the mongoose, everybody became amazed there.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The attraction of the mind to the honourable persons is called Bhakti; or devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">i.e. devotion to parents, to the teachers etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">In religious sense devotion means especially the attraction for the god.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In a book named Naradiya Bhaktisutra it is said that the earnest love for God is devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">God is the creator of all living beings, the world or the Universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">So it is our duty to make prayer to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">To make this prayer there are so many methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">For example, the way of karma an action, the way of Jnana or knowledge and the way of Bhakti or devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">The austere maintained that through all of the said ways one can reach God.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">But the way of devotion is an easier one.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Haituki and Ahaituki: Haituki is a prayer behind which there remains a definite desire or purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">For example, a devotee becomes devoted to a God with a prayer for wealth, supporters, fame, honour etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Here we see a definite end for devotion and this kind of devotion is called Haituki i.e. purposeful.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">On the other hand when the devotee becomes devoted without any definite desire, the devotee becomes devoted only for the satisfaction or love of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This sort of devotion is known as Ahaituki i.e. purposeless.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Ahaituki devotion is the best.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Devotion has got enormous power.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">It is very glorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">It is said by God Himself that I stay at the place where my devotees remain engaged in uttering or singing my name.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">God is favourite to the devotees and the devotees are also equally favourites to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">God bears the burden of His real devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">God stays within the living beings as their souls.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Out of this feeling a devotee serves the living beings and the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Let us listen to a story about such an earnestly devoted woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">It's name was Panchabati.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">A shavari, i.e. a girl of the Shavar tribe lived there.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The society of that time determined the position of the Shavari a member of the working classes at a lower hiararchy.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">But the Shavari's heart was filled with the devotion to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">She, with the heart filled with devotion, desired to do something for the devotees and be thankful to herself.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">She decided to dedicate herself to the service of the devotees and to work physically would be her way of meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Who would accept her service publicly as she was a member of a lower caste.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">So she made up her mind to discharge her service secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">In a forest near by there were the abodes of some sages.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The sages lived there and kept themselves engaged in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">But the concept of caste-system made its nest within their heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">They too believe in the difference of the castes.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">That's why the Shavari engaged herself in the service of the sages at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">She brought the firewoods from the forest and kept those in the abodes of the sages.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Wiping out the weeds she tried to keep the way to the river clean and removed the prickles and small prickles of stone carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The sages thought, who is the performer of such activities?</sent>
				<sent id ="109">But they could not come to know the person as the activities are performed at night.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">All of them surrounded her.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">She was trembling in fear with bended head.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">One of the saints was great devotee and wise.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Seeing the attraction of great devotion in Shavari, he initiated her with absolute love by then name of Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">The race conscious saints be come burst in to loud lamentation.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">They boycotted the saint who had initiated Shavari.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The old saint was not agitated by that.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">But he could not bear the shock of insult.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">He had died.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Before death he said to shavari that if she would have absolute devotion of Rama, of course, she would be able to meet Ram Chandra.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The Shavari felt very distressed at the death of the sage.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">One day in the morning the sages went to the river to have their bath.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">That Shavari also was having her bath at the same ghat.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">A shavari was having her bath at the same ghat?</sent>
				<sent id ="124">How a girl of lower caste could dare!.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The sages scolded the Shavari very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Within a moment the water of the river turned into blood.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Enormous worms and insects were seen floating on the surface of the river.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The sages could not find out the cause behind it.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Being disgraced Shavari returned to her hut.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">She made a hut using dry creepers and leaves and lived there and prayed to Lord Rama with keen devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">She used to go to the forest, bring fruits and shrubs.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">She preserved those fruits for Lord Rama which was more sweet.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">One day Lord Shri Ramachandra arrived and called Shavari with his sweet voice, where?</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Where is my dear Shavari?</sent>
				<sent id ="135">On hearing the sweet and pleasing voice, Shavari became utterly astonished.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Shavari wept with joy.Lord Shri Ramachandra also wept.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">God also shares the same feeling of the devotees.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Shavari brought and gave those dry fruits which she gathered for Lord Ramachandra with deep devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">She offered water to drink in a broken earthen pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Lord Shri Ramachandra accepted the fruits and water of his devotee with full satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">To him there is no question of the caste.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">All the devotees are equal to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Among the sages some were happy and some became annoyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Lord Shri Ramachandra went to them and asked, why did the water of the river turn to blood?</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The sages could not answer to his questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Lord Shri Ramachandra smiled and informed them If Shavari touches the water of that river the water will be pure again.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The sages got Shavari down in to the water of that river and within a moment the water had been pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">After some days the Shavari died and her soul went to Vaikuntha the abode of Lord Vishnu.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Shavari did not remain in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">But the glory of her devotion becomes memorable for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Affection is a great virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The term affection denotes satisfaction, attraction, friendship etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Affection makes the life nice and tolerable and also makes the society peaceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Affection, devotion etc. infact, implies the attraction of the heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Attraction for younger one and the friends is affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The attraction for God or any respectable person is denoted as devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Attraction of the heart toward friends and persons is generally known as affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">If the affection grows in the heart of a person he can not be selfish.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Then he feels delighted to make others free from sorrows.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">It is a matter of his satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">A heart filled with affection remains always satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">He bears all the sufferings of life gladly.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">We know that God exists the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">So to behave affectionately with the living beings is similar to that with God and God becomes satisfied at this.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The affection is a tender attribute and a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Lord Shrikrishna had profound affection for his classmate Shridama.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">It was that time when Lord Shrikrishna just killed the king Kamsa.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The peoples of Mathura were rescued from the tyranny of the king.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The devotees with a delightful mind were singing the psalms of Hari (God).</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Accepting the request of Shrikrishna and Balarama, Nandaraja went back to his adorned Vraja.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Lord Shrikrishna and Balarama then began to perform new Lila i.e. dalliance in the guise of human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">They made Ugrasena, the father of Kamsa, the king of Mathura.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Afterwards they went to the hermit of the sage, Sandipani.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">There they got Shridama as one of their classmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Intimately he was also addressed as Sudama.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">After the completion of the educational course, the classmates went back to their respective homes.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Many days passed.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Shrikrisha became the king of Dwaraka and Shridama was passing his life as a poor house holder.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Shridama was a pious Brahmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">He passed his days in religious activities and studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Whether regular meals of the day would be managed or not was uncertain due to his poverty.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">His wife also passed her life in sufferings as starving fully or partially.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">One day wife of Shridama said to him, Attention please.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">I am unable to stand as I have been very weak for want of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Shrikrishna, the king of Dwaraka is your friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Once he was your classmate.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">That's true, but why are you remembering that?</sent>
				<sent id ="188">I have heard his fame of affection and kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">He is famous for his charity also.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Nobody returned back from him with empty hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">But shall I go to beg alms to friend?</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Not to the friend only, you are also going to a munificent king.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Shridama thought over the matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">But could not come to a clear decision whether he would go or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">At last he made up his mind to go thinking that he would have the opportunity to meet Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">But it was against the custom to visit a friend's house without taking any gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">But, alas, there was nothing to give in his house.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Shridama reached Dwaraka.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Passing through many palaces and palacious rooms, Shridama reached and entered the palace of Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">From a little distance Shrikrishna saw him and coming hurriedly he embraced him with deep affection.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">One was the king of Dwarka with Royal garments.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The other was a poor Brahmin with torn and unclean clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Both of them wept out of overwhelming joy meeting one another after a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Shrikrishna, then, made Shridama sit on his own divan and washed Shridama's feet by his own hands and satisfied his friend with proper entertainment.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Both of them talked to each other on various topics.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">In the forest we suffered much in the storm and rainfall!</sent>
				<sent id ="207">On the next day after the incident our teacher, honourable Sandipani found us out.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Yes, I can remember everything of the incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">It was true that Shridama received proper entertainment.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">But what would be the case of his own side!</sent>
				<sent id ="211">What he brought, was a little amount of flattened rice which was only four handfuls in count.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">How embarrassing to give this trifling present!</sent>
				<sent id ="213">There was no information and incident which were beyond the knowledge of Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">He almost snatched the packet of the flattened rice, took a handful from that and ate gladly.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Shridama passed the night with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">But the purpose with which he had come did not come to a success.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">He suffered from hesitation and did not express his desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Shridama was followed by Shrikrishna for some time on the way home and said good-bye to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Then sportive Shrikrishna called something to his mind and felt amused.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The hut of Shridama was replaced by a palace!</sent>
				<sent id ="221">In front of the palace there was a garden and a lake.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">In the lake a lot of lotus and water-lily bloomed there.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Sweet smell of them spread all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Shridama's wife came forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">He wept for overwhelming joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Though the desire was not expressed, Shridama and his wife received a plenty of wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Lord Shrikrishna, in this way, exemplified an ideal of affection towards the friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Kindness is a virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The intention to make others free from a problem or grief is called kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Humanity is expressed through kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">When a man is sympathetic at the grief or sorrow of others and wishes to remove it, the sentiment behind this is known as kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Kindness is one of the essential attributes for the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">For whom is kindness rendered?</sent>
				<sent id ="234">The answer is for the distressed, aggrieved, diseased for affected living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Within the living beings, God exists as their soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Hence, God becomes satisfied if kindness is rendered to a living being, if his problem on grief is removed.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">It is interesting to note that Ishwara or God Himself moves around to get kindness as a distressed or aggrieved person.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Because, by the attribute of kindness human mind will remain soft and pure.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Kaviguru Rabindranath Tagore said, I move around in the world for kindness, I remain in his home who manages home for others.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Like charity, service, sacrifice, kindness is also a tender habit or attribute and a part of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Now listen to a story about kindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Siddhartha the name of boyhood of Gautama Buddha.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">From his boyhood, there was magnamity, kindness, affection and pity in his heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">He was sympathetic not only for human beings but also for the beasts and birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">He became passionate in symapthy for the grief of all.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">At an afternoon, the boy Siddhartha remained sitting in a garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">At that time, a certain thing fell to his feet making a sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">He saw that it was a duck and there was an arrow pricked on its leg.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Somebody threw the arrow and it struck to its foot.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">From the wound of the duck it was bleeding continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">What a pity!</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Who was that person to make this poor state of this duck!</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Siddhartha's mind as if wept in pity.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">He pulled the arrow off from the leg of the duck carefully and began to nurse it with proper care.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">In the mean time Devadatta, a playmate of Siddharatha came there running.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">There was a bow on his shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Devadatta said, Oh, it is you who has got the duck in possession.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">It is my duck as I hunted it throwing an arrow from my bow.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Give my duck to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">No, Devadatta, Ill not give it.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Why? How is the duck yours?</sent>
				<sent id ="262">It is rather a wild one.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">But a hunter is the owner of a hunt.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Is nt it?</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Siddhartha, then, began to say weeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Devadatta, what are you telling?</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Is there no affection in your heart?</sent>
				<sent id ="268">You feel pain if you receive a hit.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The feeling of others in this case is very similar to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">This duck also, being wounded by your arrow, is suffering from pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">It is a duck trifling creature.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Who is that poor fellow to feel pain for it?</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Give it, give it to me and I'll go back.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Oh Devadatta, it is easy to take one's life, but very difficult to save it.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Be kind, Devadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Don't push the duck towards the grip of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Never mind, Devadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">In lieu of this duck, I will give you anything you desire.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">But I don't leave this duck.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Oh Siddhartha! Devadatta, my brother, you have a life.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">By that life, try to understand the feeling and pain of another life.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Take the Shakya kingdom, I have no desire for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Instead, please be kind to the duck.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Set it free.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Understanding the firm determination of Siddhartha to save the duck and his kindness to the living beings, Devadatta became fascinated.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The attitude of kindness of Siddhartha to the living beings created the same emotion in the heart of Devadatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Siddhartha made the duck well with intensive care.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Then he flew it in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Out of joy for freedom, the duck was going on flying in the sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">With a satisfied heart Siddhartha remained looking at the flying duck.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
