<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-hind-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.375</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">205</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2600</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">907</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t150">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Generally education means knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Again, education means practice or exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">We may say that acquiring knowledge through practice is education or learning.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Similarly religious studies is to us the practice of such traditions, customs and principles through which knowledge about religion is acquired.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">There is a close relation between religion and education.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">One is the complement to the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Education is incomplete without the study of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Again the study of religion cannot be meaningful without proper education.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The aim and object of the both is the welfare of the human being and the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Generally we divide life into two tiers: worldly and spiritual.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The knowledge which man exercises for prosperity, happiness and worldly development is called education.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">On the other hand, religious studies means the exercise of religious rituals to achieve spiritual happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">There was as light difference between education and religious studies in the ancient time also.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Then education was divided into two parts namely- Para and Apara Vidya.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The subject matter of the Apara vidya was to get knowledge about worldly matter such as warfare, medical science etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">On the other hand knowledge about such spiritual subject as Brahma, soul or God is called the Para Vidya.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Through ages the Apara Vidya has become the main stream of education and the Para vidya has turned into religious studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">In the ancient time a student had to remain in the abode of the preceptor or teacher to have his education.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Learner was given the sense of religion through Upanayana ( a ritual investing with the holy thread).</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Brahmin Kshatriya and Vaishya by caste had right to be invested with Upanayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The aim of this kind of education was to make a student educated in both kinds of knowledge worldly and spiritual.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The relation between the teacher and the student was cordial.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">They used to pray to God, Oh, Brahma save us both.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Bring up us together.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">May we have the ability to acquire knowledge together.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">May we have fully illuminated with the light of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">May malice never grow within us.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">After the completion of education, the teacher gave the students permission to enter the family life through a ceremony called Samavartana ( convocation).</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The teacher advised the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Always tell the truth, perform the assigned duties, be devoted to religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Don't withdraw yourselves from the study of Shastras (scriptures), Don't depart from the truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Always follow the path of religion and duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Respect yours parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Respect your Acharyas (teachers).</sent>
				<sent id ="35">respect the guests.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Abstain from evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Perform your duties to the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Donate or contribute with respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Be devoted to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">This is the instruction of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">And this is also my advice be the ideal of your lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Through the advent of time this education system has got a changed form to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Now a-days students have not to stay in the teachers lodge to acquire knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Now special arrangement of accommodation has been made.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The students are getting knowledge there through regular studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Religious studies gives man worldly and spiritual welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Religion helps the religious go through the way of truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">It is essential for the students to be pure in body and mind to acquire the main objectives of religious students.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The Brahmacharya and to be truthful is the main part of the religious studies and it is acquired through exercise.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">In the ancient age the religious studies of the students started through the Upanayana.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">One of the duties of the student life was to supply fuel woods for the fire of yajna i, e. sacrifice of the preceptor's abode.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">To have bath in the morning and to study the vedas were the duties to be performed regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Besides they had to perform prayer three times in a day at morning, noon and evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">In the Vedic age man could achieve desirable things through Yajna (Vedic sacrifice).</sent>
				<sent id ="55">But permanent welfare was not achieved by it.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The reward of virtue gained through yajna is molested.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">To realize this and for the salvation of soul, the meditation of the Nirguna Brahma was introduced in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">But the meditation of the Brahma by taking the path of sannyasa ( i. e. renunciation) could not be able to give full satisfaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">So the meditation of the Saguna Brahma ( i. e. Brahma having primordial qualities) was introduced in course of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">By Nrguna Brahma it is meant the incorporeal absolute God.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">And Saguna Brahma means Brahma having a particular form or body i. e. the form of any god or goddess.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">The Vedic age is followed by the Pouranic age and in Pouranic age the worship of gods and goddesses was introduced.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">And through this kind of worship the religious activities were going on.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">But this system faced a bit change later on.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">A system of prayer to God through love and devotion was started.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">God possesses unlimited power and sentiments.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Due to this one prays to God treating Him as a master and looks Him as a friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Thus religious studies is going ahead through gradual changes.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">The legacy of the earlier system of prayer to God still exists.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">One can pray to God by chanting and glorifying the name of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Yet a devotee can adopt any system of prayer to God in accordance with his ability and liking.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">There is no restriction regarding this.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Sree Rama Krishna, the great became successful in his prayer to God following different systems of prayer of different schools.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">He said, If there is proper attention to the prayer, following any system the contact with God can be achieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He said, Ways are many as opinions are many.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">About the station of God various opinions are noticeable.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Sometime it was said that He remains every where in all beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">So realizing the existence of God in the beings the service of the beings is called to the service of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">In this sense God is not perceived a stranger rather.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">He exists in all beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">He is menifested in man's noble qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">These are reflected in the following five virtues namely- non violence, not to steal, to maintain purity, to be truthful and to have self restrained.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">In modern sense service to mankind is the service to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Thus we can notice the evolutionary change in the learning of religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Both education and religion are aiming at human welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Education supplies with the materials of livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">And through religious studies, we get instruction for controlled behaviour and spiritual welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">So the study of religion is also essential with the imparting of general education to get peace and welfare in our personal and social life.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Karma Yoga means the meditation for Ishwara or liberation through duties or action.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">In Karma Yoga, Karma or duty is to be made taking the path way of Yoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Yoga means the cessation of mental states i. e. Yoga is to keep the mind free and controlled from the natural oscillation.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In happiness or sorrow in delight or pain the mind will show no reaction.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Mind will remain in tranquility.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">God will be prayed with calm and quiet mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">On the other hand Yoga is a technique.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">The riddle of that technique is to change the natural course of the karma.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">In Karma one comes under bondage.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">But if the Karma (duty) is performed with Yoga i. e. technically one may be free from the bondage and gets liberation.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">From Karma Yoga the riddle and the appropriate process of Karma can be perceived.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Speculation on Karma is going through ages because we can not live without karma or worldly activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">In this sense karma is called life.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The activities of body and mind continue even worldly activities are given up.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Yet a particular attribute of karma is to produce fruit or result.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">And to enjoy this Karmaphala is a primary desire for a being (Jiva).</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Without enjoyment, Karmaphala is not decayed.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">So either good or bad the jiva must enjoy it.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">According to them without karma karmaphala will not be produced and the question of enjoyment of karmaphala will not arise.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">In this circmustances Jiva will be able to be liberated.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The opinion of the followers of the school of jnan about karma is not accepted in the holy Gita by Lord krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">He explain that the bondage of Jiva happens for the attraction of karmaphala and not for karma.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Those who advocate to give up karma also remain engaged in some karmas like remembrance, thinking, felling etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">So in no circumstances karma can be given up fully.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Lord Shrikrishna says that for liberation one should remain engaged in karma with a technique.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">And that technique is karmayoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">To give up the desire of the enjoyment of karmaphala:</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The karma (duty) is to be performed without the expectation of enjoyment of the result.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">If the karma is performed in such a way success or failure will not give rise to joy or sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Then with a calm and quiet mind the meditation for Ishwara will be easier.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">To give up the authorship of the karma : A distinct instruction of karma yoga is to do a work without any authorship.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">I am doing it such attitude should not be maintained.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">God is the owner of all the creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He is the only author of all sorts of activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">He appoints me to perform the work.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">If any work is performed in this sense the work will be an example of karmayoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">he has no right to enjoy the karmaphala (result).</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Karmayogin dedicates his karmaphala to God and becomes free from the responsibility of karmaphala.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">About this karmayogin Swami Vivekananda said, What does karmayoga tell?</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Work continuously but give up attraction for the work, sorrow grows from attraction not from karma .</sent>
				<sent id ="129">In the biographies of many sages like king of ancient age, the examples of such karmayoga is available.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Janaka, the king of Mithila was one of such karmayogins and a great man alike.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Though he was a king but he possessed a sage like heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The head of this state was God and he was appointed by God to maintain it.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">On the other hand, the instruction of saint Tukaram to Shivaji, we get another example of karmayoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Chatrapati Shivaji was highly respectful to the saint Tukaram.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">He gave up the duties of king and took shelter at the foot of Tukaram.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Listening to the Bhajanas, the songs of devotion sung by Tukaram, a deep devotion arose in the heart of Chatrapati Shivaji.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He became indifferent to the royal duties and worldly affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Tukaram then instructed Shivaji to meditate Ishwara following the path way of karmayoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">He said, there is no need to leave worldly affairs and home for the meditation of God .</sent>
				<sent id ="140">It should be remembered that the master of this world and of our homes is only God.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Jiva has arrived here to perform as bounded duties assigned by Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The assignment should be performed as bounded duty even the result or effect of the work is done to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Thus meditation in which one connects one's own activity to God is karmayoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">In karmayoga swakarma is given more importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Swakarma means the work of the self ( i. e. one's work), whether it is great or trifling, it is always praiseworthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Karmayogin does not wait for the karmaphala i. e. the result of his work.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">He performs his own work as a matter of his duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">The result of such work becomes good.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Karmayogin works for the welfare of others and for the satisfaction of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Swakarma may be trifling yet it is not discreditable.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">About this we can remember the pouranic episode of Dharmavyadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">There lived a karmayogin named Dharmavyadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">He was a butcher.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">He chopped meat and sold it.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Occasionally he discussed religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">He always thought of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">But as a son of a butcher he took the profession of hunting beast and selling meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">This type of work is condemnable to others, but it is the duty of Vyadha.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The butcher was running his profession unhesitatingly to maintain his parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">This work is Dharmavyadha's karmayoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">It was in his realization that he was doing his duty assigned by God.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Performing swakarma as duty in his daily life, Dharmavyadha drew the favour of God.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Karmayoga in one hand, liberates the karmayogin, on the other hand, makes welfare of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">So the work of a karmayogin remains free from self- interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">In the world of work, having the opportunity of doing something, karmayogin thinks himself blessed.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The aim of his work is to do good to the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">So there is a necessity of karmayoga for the welfare of man, society and the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">The more will be involved in karmayoga, the more will be the welfare of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">There is an important role of Yogasana to religious performances.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Aiming at both worldly welfare and spiritual development religious activities are performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Through the formal ritual development religious activities, one is made to achieve mental purity and social welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Body and mind are the means and objects of meditations.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">So proper care must be taken to keep these two healthy.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">If the body does not remain in form or well, no work can be done properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">On the other hand, if mind oscillate and restless nothing can be performed smoothly at that state.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The Rishis of ancient time realized this truth deeply.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">They said that to achieve worldly and spiritual welfare, body and mind must be kept well.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">And for this the exercise of yogasana is very essential.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">The word Bhujanga means snake.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">So another name of the Bhujangasana is Sarpasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">When a snake expands its hood, the upper portion of its body bends slightly to the back.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The Asana that keeps our body in such a position is called Bhujangasana.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Lie down on your face and chest and put your palms of the hands by the sides of your shoulders, keep the legs straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Stick your toes to the ground, Knee, thigh and ankle will remain straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Then keeping the weight of the body on the hands, pull your chest and face up.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Your neck will remain slightly bended towards the back.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">You will feel a pull in your throat.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Giving little weight on the hands you will have to raise your head and ribbons.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Your elbows will remain half folded sticking to your body.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Muscle below the waist may be contracted.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Eyes will remain open to have an extended look.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">In this condition, pull your body up breathing in and while breathing out get your body down on the ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">In this way practice the asana four or five times.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">After practice take a rest in Shabasana ( An asana lying like a corpse).</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Sit on the ground spreading your legs forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Fold your left leg at the knee and touching the right side of the hip by the ankle.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Similarly fold your right leg at the knee and touch the left side of the hip by the ankle of the right leg.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Right knee will remain on the left knee like the same manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Now pull your right hand straight up near the head and thus keep the right elbow folded towards your back.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Folding the left hand keep the left elbow folded on your back.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Try to catch the fingers of the left hand by those of right hand.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">The spine will remain straight.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">In this condition breathe in and breathe out slowly ten to fifteen times.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">You may change your hands and legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">After the practice take rest in Shavasana.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
