<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-hind-9</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.583</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">504</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">6072</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">2029</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t157">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">It was the early part of the 20th century.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This country was then under the British administration.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">For the independence of the country movement was gaining strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">In an attack of bomb two innocent English lady lost their lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The police became very active and arrested some of the suspects.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Among them there was a distinguished personality named Shri Aravinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">He was also taken to the jail being tied with a rope.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">People fied on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The trial of them was going on in the jail of Alipore.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Chittaranjan Das, a new barrister pleader the case in favour of the accused.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">The net of argument of the government pleader was torn by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">He proved that the accused are not guilty.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">To ventilate the ideal of independence cannot be against any rule.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Patriotism is not condemnable in the eye of any law.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">He, about whom the prediction was made by the renowned lawyer here, was turned to Rishi Aravinda afterwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">The trial continued the whole year and then he was released.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">When he was living lonely in the jail, a sort of change happened in the life of Aravinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The jail became his hermitage of meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">He felt the presence of Bramha (God) in everything on the wall of the jail, in the sentry, the trees and plants of the garden.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">One day in meditation he saw Lord Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">He handed over a copy of the Gita to Aravinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">When meditation was over, he became a devotee of God and his devotion to god increased more.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Aravinda was born in Calcutta on 15th August His father krishnadhan Ghosh was a physician who studied in England.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">His mother Swarnalata Devi was the daughter of Rajnarayan Basu, a very respectable person in the Brahma society.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Rajnarayan Basu was renowned as Swadeshi leader i.e. a nationalist leader.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">It was a vow of his life to make the Bengali nation renowned and great in all respects.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">These qualities of the maternal grand father influenced Aravinda's life to a great extent.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Aravinda's father was interested to educate his son in English medium school.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">So he admitted Aravinda in a English medium school in Darjiling at the age of five.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">After two years Aravinda was taken to London and was admitted to Saint paul's school.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Aravinda's student life was very glorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">He passed the entrance examination having scholarship.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">At the age of 18 he passed the civil service examination.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">In that examination Aravinda stood first in Greek and Latin language.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">But he was not appointed in the civil service, excusing that he did not turn up in the test of riding horse.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Aravinda remained fourteen years in London.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">He got an appointment in Baroda state and came back home in This time he began to know his country, religion and culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">He studied the Vedas, the Upanishads, the Gita, the Puranas and other scriptures of Hindu religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">In this way, a close relation of Aravinda was established with the religion and philosophy of India.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Aravinda married Mrinalini Devi when he was in Baroda.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Though he led family life, he was indifferent to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">His wife Mrinalini Devi took the responsibility of the family and helped her husband in all respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">In the later part of his staying in Baroda, Aravinda was involved in revolutionary activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The grief and pain of subjugation moved his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">So he began to work for the independence of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">To reach the message of Independence from door to door he published a journal.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">In 1905 a movement was organized to stop the breakage of Banga.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Political agitation was launched everywhere in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Aravinda took leave without pay for a long period from the service at Baroda and joined the on- going movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">He was given the charge of the extremists of Calcutta.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">At the same time he had to work as the editor of the paper named Vandemataram.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">It was the chief mouth speach of the extremists.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Through Vandemataram he trained the people of the country to respect the country as one's own mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The separations of Bangla was set aside, but the movement was not stopped, rather it turned to the movement for independence.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">The attention of the government felt upon Aravinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">In 1907 a case was framed against him for sedition.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">But there was no evidence and for that poet Rabindranath greeted him writing a poem where there is a line- Aravinda Rabindrer laha nameskar.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">It means, Aravinda, please take the salute of Rabindra.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Aravinda suffered very much for taking active role for the independence of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">He had to remain in jail more than once.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">In the life at jail another revolution started in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">In the outer world the revolution for independence was going on and in his heart he felt the hints of Lord Shrikrishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">He responsed to the all of inner revolution and went ahead through the way of meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">At that time he was guiding two journals namely Dharma and Karmayogin.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Aravinda handed over the responsibility of the editorship of karmayogin to sister Nivedita and went away to Pandicheri.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It was 4th April of There was an important chapter of his life when activities of spiritual attainment was started.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">He remained engaged in religious activities for fourty years including 12 years of his lonely life.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">He founded his famous Ashrama in Pandicheri.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Shri Aravinda was an extra ordinary yogin.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">His yoga was not aiming at his own salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">He wanted the development of divine power in the life of the nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">He published a journal named Arya.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Through this journal he published the explanation of the Upanishad, ideal of divine life, philosophy of religion etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">To him religion was life and power.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">He was a devotee of universal truth and beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">One of the important incidents in his life at Pandicheri was the visit of Mira and Paul Richard.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">They were a french couple.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">They were searching a person with spiritual attainment and knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Mira and Richard became charmed coming in contact with Aravinda in Pandicheri and dedicated themselves the service of Shri Aravinda.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Afterwards this Mira was know as Shri Ma-i.e. reverend mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">This Shri Ma took the charge of the administration of the Ashrama.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Shri Aravinda wrote six books in Bengali; such as Karakahini (story of prisonment), Dharma, Jatiyata and thirty two in English.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">This powerful Mahayogin died on 5th Deember His body was buried in the compound of the Ashrama, he established.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">It was the month of Novermber in 1880 and the residence of Surendranath Mitra at Simulia.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Thakur Ramkrishna came there.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">A young handsome boy was singing a song to Thakur with melodious tune.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">As if drops of nectar were dropping from the heaven.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">What a high and deep tune it was!</sent>
				<sent id ="89">What a solemn song it was!</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Shri Ramakrishna fell in ecstasy.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Tears of joy were coming out from his eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Thakur told the young man, Would you please come to Dakshineswar, my dear!</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The young man agreed to the proposal.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">The name of this young man was Narendra Nath Dutt alias Naren.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Afterwards this Naren had earned world wide reputation as Swami Vivekananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">In riches and fame the Dutt family of Simulia, a village in Calutta was familiar all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">In this family Vivekananda was born on 12th January in 1863.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">His father, Vishwanath Dutt was a reputed lawyer and his mother Bhuvaneshwari Devi was a devoted house wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Vivekananda's nick name at his childhood was Vireshwar alias Vile.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">In his boyhood Vile was very restless.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Yet his power to give attention in a particular matter was unparallel.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">A favourite game of Vile was Puja i.e. worship and meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">One day in the evening viler sat for meditation with some of his friends.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">One of the groups opened his eyes, and saw a big snake in front of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Except Vile all of them went away with shouting Snake, Sknake, but Vile was absorbed in deep meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">His parents rushed there and saw that a poisonous snake expanding its hood was as if standing.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">All were in fear.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">But the snake equalized its hood and went away.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Still then Vile was in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It was a strange incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Vile was named as Narendra Nath when he was admitted to school.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">After finishing the primary education Narendra Nath got himself admitted into Metropolitan Institution.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">He was meritorious in his studies, at the same time he showed his skill at games, sports and music.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Passing the Entrance examination in first division, he got himself admitted in to a college.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">In B.A. class he studied philosophy.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The treatise on god in philosophy made him think.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Does god exist?</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Narendra Nath became absorbed in this question.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">If he came in contact with any ascetic or saint he put this question to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Have you seen God?</sent>
				<sent id ="121">But their answers could not make him satisfied.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">One day Narendra Nath went to Dakshineshwar with his companions.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Thakur Ramakrishna became overwhelmed with joy- I have been awaiting you for long.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">I am distressed by discussing with serious persons about worldly affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">From today I shall get peace talking with a person having real sacrificing attitude.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">When he was uttering these words, the eyes of thakur began to shed tears.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">You have taken a corporeal body for the welfare of the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Naren became astonished.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">What a peculiar talk it was!</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This person was really a lunatic one.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">It was an event of another day.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">In him there is a sun of Knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">On the third day Naren asked thakurs, Have you seen god yourself?</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Without any hesitation thakur answered him, certainly as I see you I have seen God more clearly than this.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Do you like to see?</sent>
				<sent id ="136">I can show you.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">All on a sudden thakur Shri Ramkrishna raised from his seat and placed his right leg on the shoulder of Naren.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Immediately a change occured in the mind of Naren.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Out of fear and astonishment, Naren shouted, oh reverend person, what a wrong you have done on me, I have parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Thakur placed his hands on Naren's chest and with that Naren came to normal position.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Narendra Nath passed B.A. examination, at that time a set back happened in his family.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">All on a sudden his father expired and the responsibility of the family took place on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">The family was not solvent as it was before.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">He had to bear the kick of poverty.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Naren went door to door for a job but he could manage none.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">He went to Rama Krishna and told him all about his position.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Thakur said to him, Today is Tuesday, I suggest you, go to the temple of goddess Kali to night.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">There bow to her and what you will pray, mother goddess will give you that.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">One fourth of night passed on.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Naren entered the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The temple was lighted with the beauty of Jagadhamva i.e. Mother of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">What a strange matter with Naren!</sent>
				<sent id ="153">He could not pray money or wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">He prayed, Oh mother, give me consciences, apathy towards worldly interests, love for knowledge and devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">After his coming out from the temple, thakur asked him about his prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Thakur sent Naren to goddess thrice but at any time Naren could not pray to her for worldly solvency.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">In this condition thakur said, well, as you could not want any worldly things, you will not get any worldly happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">This is your fate.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">But I tell you, your family will not suffer from the want of essential commodities.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">To meet Shri Ramkrishna and to come to his close contact was the greatest event in the life of Narendra Nath.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">One day Shri Ramakrishna said I have come to the world this time only for him (Naren).</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In fact Ramakrishna was born to turn Naren into Vevekananda for the welfare of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Once Narendranath attained Samadhi (absorption in meditation) by the grace of Thakur.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">He wanted to remain absorbed in Nirvikalpa Samadhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Thakur scolded him and said, Fie, fie on you!</sent>
				<sent id ="166">At last it is you!</sent>
				<sent id ="167">You want to walk on the easier way to reach the destination!</sent>
				<sent id ="168">You want to be a yogi without considering the deplorable condition of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">On the contrary, you are thinking about your own salvation and liberation.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">No, no, you should not be so mean, so narrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">The advice of Thakur made a turn in the life of Narendra Nath.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">He was directed to serve the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">He left the idea of Samadhi and became a Karmayogi.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The soul of Ramkrishna left the corporeal body on 15th August, Narendra organised an association of the Sannyasis with all co-disciples.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Adoption Sannyasa Narendra was renamed as Vivekananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">As an wandering ascetic he travelled so many places of pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Travelling the whole India once he remained sitting on the stony altar of kanyakumaris.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">The real picture of the country flashed in front of his eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">There is hunger, want of clothes, illiteracy and the people of this country have lost their morality and are drowned under superstition.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">He was a penniless Sannyasi.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Still he had to do something.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">He then remembered the saying of his preceptor, Ramakrishna, In a living being, God exists.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Vivekananda decided that he would go to western countries and would earn money and spend that money to serve the people of his country.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">He got an opportunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">A world conference on religion would be held in the city of Chicago in America.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Vivekananda started for Chicago on the 31st May in Suffering much trouble, Vivekananda got the opportunity to attend that world conference on religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">It was that memorable day the 11th September in 1893 Vivekananda, came forward and stood on the dias wearing red ochre dress in ascetic manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">He addressed My American brothers and sisters.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">On hearing this address, the whole auditorium clappe and burst into joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Swamijee discussed the philosophical aspect of Hindu religion briefly.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">He said, in Hindu religion there is respect for others religion and there is perseverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">After this, he delivered five lectures on different days.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">He said, Every religion of the world is resourceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">So no religion is inferior or negligible.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Peace will be restored in the world if we do not quarrel with each other and show mutual respect and maintain the attitude of co-operation.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">All the people of that meeting became charmed at the speech of Swamijee.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">the whole American became attentive to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Vivekananda earned world victory in this respect.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">At the begining of 1897 vivekananda returned home.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">A sannyasi came back earning world victory.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">He was highly greeted.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">This time he gave attention to build up the nation.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">He realized that in the heart of the weak country men strength and courage should be developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Aiming at the young folk he called- rise, awake up, attain the good, remember-weakness is sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Gather power, you are the sons of immortality.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Endless power exists in you.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">God exists in all living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">He said in one of his poems, Ishwar is with you in various forms.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Those who loves living being, he worships Ishwar.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">For the welfare of the country Vivekananda established Ramkrishna Mission, Ramkrishna Savashram, Sarada temple etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">He was a noble friend of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">This great man who would know the Brahma departed from his corporeal body at Belurmath in 1902.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">i. Dharma (religion) is such an idea which makes a beast into a man and a man into a divinity.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Get up, awake up, do not remain in sleep any more; you possess the power to remove all wants and sorrow within you.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Believe in it and then that power will awake you up.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">To love others is virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">To hate others is vice.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">It is true education which helps one to be self reliant.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">In Asam, the place of spiritual power of kamakya.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">The festival of amvuvachi was going on.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Hundreds of pilgrims from different corners were coming to pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">A group of Bangladeshi pilgrims were coming to pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">With them there was a devotee boy.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">He had no any relation with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Arriving at the place of the festival the boy lost his companions in the crowd.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">He tried his best to find them out, but he failed.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">He had no money with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">So he had to starve the whole day.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">The festival came to an end and all the participants were going back to their respective destinations.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">The boy was undone.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">Gradually the night became condensed.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">One night he, in a dream, had an esteric hymn from a sage.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">He was then twelve years of age.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Sitting by the side of the temple he began to recite repeatedly the Mantra which he had learnt before in a dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Suddenly he heard a voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">He was called by his name Rama.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">He stopped himself from recitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Who was calling him by his name at this dead of night?</sent>
				<sent id ="239">No.-he thought I am wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Again he heard that call, -Rama do you hear me, my boy?</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Get up and come to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">On the next moment he saw a sage of Tantrik school with a strong spiritual power in front of him.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Being thundered with astonishment and out of devotion the boy fell on the feet of the sage.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">And this boy became Ramthakur of the later period.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Ramthatur was born in a village named Dingamanik under greater Faridpur district on 21st Magha in 1266 BS.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">His father Radhamadhav Chakravorty was a devotee under Tantrik school and attained success in Tantrik rituals.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">His mother, kamala Devi was a devoted woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">So their family was religiously very sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Ramthakur was devoted to religion from his boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">He was given admission to a primary school for his studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">But he did not make progress.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Very often he wandered in the meadows and bushes of his village.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Yatra (a traditional theatre) etc. were held.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">At the age of eight, Ramthakur lost his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Their family felt in poverty.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">His mother became very worried about the fact that the son of a Pandit (scholar) family would pass his life remaining uneducated.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">But the result became opposite.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">After his Upanayana he left home and went away to a town named Noakhali.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Then he took the service of a cook in the house of an engineer.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">His monthly pay for the job was taka 5 (five) only.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">On his request his master sent that money by post to his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Ramthakur cooked every day carefully and served them.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">But his meal was very few in amount.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Moreover he did not take his meal every day.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">After everybody's meal he said his prayer and performed the rituals out of the sight of others he always kept his meal to nearby forest.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Two jackals used to come and ate the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">At night he did not go to sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">He was in meditation after the way of yoga.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">From here he went to the festival of kamakhya in Asam.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">He met his preceptor there who appeared in his dream, in the temple of kamakhya.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">He, as advised by his preceptor, followed him.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">The preceptor was going ahead and the follower was behind him.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The name of this preceptor was Anangadeva.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Ramathkur and three of his co- disciples toured with their preceptor so many regions, which were difficult to access, in the Himalayas.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">They saw there so many yogis, Rishis and Meditators and Sages.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">With the preceptor, they went to the hermit named kaushika and they met some greatmen there.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">In a deep forest near Gaziabad, Ramthakur remained absorbed in deep meditation for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Here he attained success in his meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">As directed by the preceptor, Ramthakur, who was adorned with a great spiritual power had come to human habitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Everybody in his village was almost confirmed that he would never come back.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">But Ramthakur returned to his mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">The joy of the beloved mother knew no bounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">He kept in secret the matter that he had attained success in meditation and acquired great spiritual power.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Like a simple son, he remained with his mother for some time.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Again suddenly he became traceless.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">For a long time he remained in the places the address of which was given to none.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Afterwards he lived in Shantipur and Uttarpara near Calcutta.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Gradually his super human power of Yoga was being expressed.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">People found the way of truth in him.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">He behaved in such a way that no one was unrelated to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">He said, No one is unrelated in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">It is pride for which one feels one related and takes the others unrelated.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">Ramthakur was, as if, a nearest relation to the distressed, diseased and sufferers.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">He served the distressed with a sympathetic heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Once thakur was remaining in a house of a devotee, which was nearer to Bashberhe.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">At that time a little son of his devotee had become bedridden due to the attack of rheumatism.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">In spite of the treatment of a lot of experienced physicians, the condition of patient did not improve.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">At this stage the parents of the boy fell on the feet of the thakur and kept on weeping.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">The heart of thakur was melted by pity.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">He went to bank of the Ganga and set his seat of meditation in the bush of the kash (a tall species of grass).</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Ramthakur became absorbed in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">And here it was seen that the diseased boy was becoming well.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">In such a way, Ramthakur served the diseased and distressed people.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Ramthakur led his prayer and meditation following the openion of different schools and different ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">He was a Vaishnava and at the same time austere endeavourer of shakta, and other religious schools.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">He suggested the ways of meditation as a disciple wishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">He showed the way of prayer to God through the service to the mankind irrespective of caste, creed or religious communities.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">With the zeal and vigour of his devotees Ashramas i.e. centres for religious practice of Ramthakur were established in the different parts of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Before the establishment of the Ashrama at Pahartali, Thakur went to see the spot.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">He said, This is a very holy place.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Many tired and aggrieved people would get here peace and tranquility.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Looking at the banyan tree under a hill he said, the power of goddess Kaivalya exsists here.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">A brick built altar is to be erected around the tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Afterwards in this pahartali Kvaialyandhama.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">i.e. centre for worship of Kaivalya was established.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">The literal meaning of the word Kaivalya implies the freeness from ritual bias.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">At the time of inaugural function of the establishment of Kaivalyadhama thakur stayed there for three nights.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">He did not remain static in any Ashrama.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">In his later life, he stayed mainly in Chowmohani.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">There, in the house of an esteemed devotee Shri Upendrakumar Saha, he left this world on 18th Baishkha in 1353 B.S.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">His pity is gained through surrender to guru, i.e. the preceptor with patience and forbearance.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">God exsists in every living soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">He is visible if guru shows pity.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Bhagawan can be perceived only through devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">It was hundred years ago.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Then this country was under British administration.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Aiming at the independence of the country, the movement for home land started.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">At that time Vinod Brahmachari was a leading personality.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">His mother Sarada Devi was a devoted woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Vishnucharan Bhuian had four sons and two daughters.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Vinod was the third among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Before the birth of Vinod, Sarada Devi dreamt a dream that Mahadeva (the earliest of all gods) was lying on her lap as her son.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">She informed her husband what she dreamt and both of them were awaiting the arrival of that god with joyful mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">In time, Shiva had descended as a son to their family.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Vinod was devoted to Shiva from his boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">From this time, he practised Omkara i. e. uttering the word Om repeatedly following the rules of Yoga in meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">With this religious practice, his education in primary and secondary level was going on.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">Vinod was a student of High English school in Bajitpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">At that time the movement for homeland had already started.It seemed that Vinod could not be able to give proper attention to his studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">From that school, he appeared at the Matric examination (now renamed as S.S.C).</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Afterwards Vinod was turned to a Brahmachari.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">It was a time when Hari- Samkirtana (enchanting and singing the name of Hari repeatedly) prevailed largely in different villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Vinod himself was very fond of kirtana.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">So he himself organized a troupe of Hari Samkirtana.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Vinod's body was very strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">He possessed great physucal strength yet he was a symbol of self control.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">In his meal he had boiled potato, dal (pulse), rice such type of vegetarian food.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">During the whole day and night he slept not more than an hour.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">He performed physical exercise regularly and talked leid.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">He lay down on a plank of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">In this way, Vinod built his character.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">He suggested his friends to observe Brahmachary and to be self controlled.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">Vinod, gradually, became familiar as Pious Vinod.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">His Ashrama in Bajitpur became very popular.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Bholanandagiri, an esteemed devotee, once had come to the Ashrama at Bajitpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">What is the remady of it?</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Don't be worried.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">The fore saying of Bholanada Giri Maharaj was proved a correct one.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Later on that Vinod became renowned as Swami Pranavananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The movement for home land was gaining more strength gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Madaripur was a famous centre of the revolutionaries.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Purnadas, a revolutionary was a son of this region.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">Being informed about the organizing capactiy of Vinod, he met him in Bajitpur.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">To set up the organizational tie among the freedom fighters Vinod came forward.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">In 1914 police of British govt.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">arrested Vinod as an accused of Faridpur conspiracy case.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">But finding no evidence, they released him.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Brahmachari Vinod thought about the future prospect and development of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">He realized that through an ideal organization, it would be possible to lead this nation towards prosperity.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">The ideal of the organizational life would be to render service to the distressed, the diseased and the aggrieved.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">After some days from this time, Vinod lost his father.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">As suggested by his mother, Vinod went to Gaya, a holy place of Pilgrimage, to offer pindi, (a ritual for the satisfaction of departed soul).</sent>
				<sent id ="373">There he observed the oppression of the pandas (a sort of helpers of the priests and guide of the visitors) and became very annoyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">He came back home and dedicated himself to the services of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Due to his efforts some Sevashramas i. e. service centers were established in Madaripur, Bajitpur, Khulna and many other places.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">Brahmachari Vinod was serving the worker of this service centres for the rescue of the people from the claws of natural calamity, epidemic and famine.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">His service was being praised everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">In 1921 an acute famine occured in the Sundarban region of the present Bagerhat district.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">Brahmahari Vinod, with his five hundred followers, distributed food among the famine affected people.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">For this social service, Acharya Prafulla Chandra Roy, and eminent inhabitant of Khulna, praised him a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">In the month of January, 1924 a religious fair took place in Prayaga namely Ardha (Half) Kumbha fair.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">There he was initiated of Sannyasa mantra by swami Govindananda Giri.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">After embracing the Sannyasa he was renamed as Pranavananda.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">He dressed with red orchre.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Then he gave his attention to the centres of Pilgrimage.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">He observed that in different centres of pilgrimage of the Hindus immoral practice, unlawful conduct and oppression were going on regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">The pilgrims were being oppressed by the Pandas.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Just then a report was published in Newspapers about the oppression of the Pandas.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Swami Pranavananda rushed to Gayadhama.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">He opened a service centre to save the pilgrims from the oppression of the Pandas.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">The name of this service-centre or ashrama was Bharat Sevashrama.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">The interest of the Pandas was hampered.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">They took their stand against Pranavanandajee.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">But Pranavanandajee, whose courage was unlimited, overcame all sorts of hindrance and established service centres in Kashi, Prayag, Vrindavan, Kurakshetra and in many other places.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">They sang the songs of the glory of the past of the Hindus in towns and many other places of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">In 1927 A.D. in the festival of Purnakumbha fair at Haridwara Swami Pranavananda expressed himself as a Sadguru i.e. a good religious teacher.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">He, then, was absorbed in deep meditation.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">When he came to normal position, he said to his disciples, - We should start movement for the formation of moral and spiritual social life.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">Moreover aiming at the erradication of untouchability and to spread education, he said, -through education a nation awakes and man flourishes to be great.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">The dirt of untouchability must be removed from the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="401">To create the sentiment of co-operation a holy centre of union is to be established.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">In 1935 A.D. Swami Pranavananda arranged a conference of the Hindus in Bajitpur Ashrama.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">Participants in lacs gathered in that conference.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">Listening to the sayings of Swami Pranavananda, they found the way of a new life.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">People of underdeveloped classes in lacs, became his disciples and got rid of inferiority complex.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">The great Swami Pranavananda lived alive only 44 years.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">On 8th January in 1941 he breathed his last at the centre of Bharat-sava Sangha in Baliganj.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">Message of Swami Pranavanandajee.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Practise self control over your meal, enjoyment and conversation.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">A weak person cannot acquire spiritual knowledge and devotion to God.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">Organization, strength of organization and its leadership when these three are put together, they are turned into a unified powerful one.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Miravai was born in Rathor family in the village of kudki of Rajasthan in the first part of sixteenth century.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">There is different opinion about the birth era of Miravai.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">The modern historian mentioned about the birth era of miravai is 1498 A.D.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Father Ratnasingh had been living at kudki by establishing a frotress after getting the jaygir by inheritance.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">Miravai had been brought up with great affection from childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">A little incident of childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">One day, a bridegroom, adorned with garland, sandal paste and flowers, had been going to a wedding ceremony with accompanies a bridegroom.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">There are hundreds of lamp-lights, various types of music with bridegroom.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The ladies of the house were looking after bridegroom with great eager.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">Tiny girl Mira asked again and again, Mother on which day my bridegroom will come?</sent>
				<sent id ="422">At that time mother was busy for looking bridegroom.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">So, she told to satisfy her daughter, Oh!</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Your bridegroom is at home.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">Giridhari Gopaljee, is in the prayer hall.</sent>
				<sent id ="426">He is your bridegroom.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">Your marriage will be with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">Go, now keep quite.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">Who knew this speech would be clinged in the mind of Mira?</sent>
				<sent id ="430">From that day Mira started Worshiping Giridhari Gopal as her bridegroom with flowers on faith upon the speech of mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">She has loved Giridhari.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">Siting infront of him she hums song in mind herself.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">Mother unconsciously sowed that very seed of devotion which was growing up day by day in the mind of the daughter.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">She had loved Gopinath from her childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">Gopaljee became the playmet to her.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">Her mother died when she was only eight years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">The father became helpless along with his dauther.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">Thinking the miserable condition of grand dauther, the grand father Rao Dudajee took Mira near to him in Medata.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">In one hand Rao Dudajee was wealthy, on the other hand devoted.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">There was a magnificent temple of Caturbhujajee (a deity with four hands) near by the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">Here, Mira was growing up within the thought of devotion.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">Many devotees and saints were coming to the temple.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">One devotee presented an image of Giridhari Gopal to Mira.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">Mira also accepted the image and passed her days by worshiping and serving him.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">Mira composed song overwhelmed with emotion being extremely eager in loving Krishna from adolescent age and sang that song in sweet voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">The women of the gynaecium was charmed by hearing her song.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">One day she sang a self composed song to hear for the women of gynaecium.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Mother, my garland is exchanged with God.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">We smeared termeric upon whole body at wedding time.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">My briedegroom God himself came to the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">I have seen in dream, charming gate was framed, my beloved soul has come.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">I have got Giridhara as my lord of soul due to the absolute goodfortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="453">He has married me in dream, I have no boundary of prosperity.</sent>
				<sent id ="454">In this mental condition Miravai came to the Rayal family of Mever as housewife.</sent>
				<sent id ="455">The king Bhoja, the first son of great hero Rana Samgram singh, became her husband.</sent>
				<sent id ="456">But there was no obstacle for her devotional love in the palace of citor.</sent>
				<sent id ="457">Husband Bhojaraj established the image of shyamanath on request of wife.</sent>
				<sent id ="458">Invite the priest of caturbhuja temple absolute vaishnav Gadadhar pandit had been taken to citor from the father's house at Medata.</sent>
				<sent id ="459">Miravai was changed as a hermit Miravai within some years of married life.</sent>
				<sent id ="460">Not in erthly pleasures and luxury, but passed most of the time of the day by singing, worshiping and also serving the image of Shyamanath.</sent>
				<sent id ="461">Seeing cxtremely eagerness of mind of wife Bhojaraj asked, What do you want?</sent>
				<sent id ="462">And tell me by what getting do you happy?</sent>
				<sent id ="463">In answering to that Miravai started sing a song in sweet voice.</sent>
				<sent id ="464">Answer to husband with self composed song.</sent>
				<sent id ="465">Means, I don't have anybody except giridhari.</sent>
				<sent id ="466">He is my husband who has pea- cock crown in head.</sent>
				<sent id ="467">I have come here for devotion, world is observing me.</sent>
				<sent id ="468">Oh! Giridhari, Mira is your maid servant .</sent>
				<sent id ="469">O God! Husband king Bhoja was became charmed hearing the song flowed out from the wind-pipe of the pretty wife Miravai with fascinated heart.</sent>
				<sent id ="470">The common people and devotees of Citor came to know the eagerness to love Krishna of the queen consort.</sent>
				<sent id ="471">They knew Miravai, not as a queen- consort, but devoted saint.</sent>
				<sent id ="472">The news of sweet vocal music and devotion to love of Miravai was circulated through over whole Rajasthan.</sent>
				<sent id ="473">Within this condition, husband of Miravai died unexpectedly in At that time it was full of youth of Mira.</sent>
				<sent id ="474">Her father-in-law Samgram singh also died sithin short time of this incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="475">Miravai had to face various oppressions and injustice by the guardian of Royal family in her misearable widowhood life.</sent>
				<sent id ="476">Here, at that time, the greedly looking of the new king Vikramjit singh of Citor, felt upon Miravai.</sent>
				<sent id ="477">Vikramjit was trying to capture Miravai by means of different tricks.</sent>
				<sent id ="478">He was rambling to the meditation room and bed room of Miravai as like as a ferocious wild beast stricken with desire for sexual gratification.</sent>
				<sent id ="479">The owner of the palace and sister Udavai has been appointed to cpture Miravai.</sent>
				<sent id ="480">But Udavai became embarrassed after came in contact closely to Miravai and became a devotee of Mira.</sent>
				<sent id ="481">Then Vikramjit was engaged in conspiracy to kill Mira.</sent>
				<sent id ="482">But the life of Miravai was saved by the grace of Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="483">Vikramjit became more cruel and obstructed to study scripture.</sent>
				<sent id ="484">Miravai was leading as an imprisoned life in the palace.</sent>
				<sent id ="485">But internal meditation could not be stoped.</sent>
				<sent id ="486">At last one day Miravai returned back to father's house at Medata.</sent>
				<sent id ="487">From there to Vrindavan.</sent>
				<sent id ="488">At that time Shrirupgoswami as the Acarya of Gouriya vaishnavas.</sent>
				<sent id ="489">Miravai wanted to meet him as a visitor at Vrindavan.</sent>
				<sent id ="490">Acarya refused Miravai due to an woman.</sent>
				<sent id ="491">But Miravai was an obstinate person.</sent>
				<sent id ="492">She said, Has Goswamijee forgetten the message of Bhagavat?</sent>
				<sent id ="493">Shrikrishna is only male of Vrindavan.</sent>
				<sent id ="494">And all others are nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="495">Then, why having theological knowledge, Goswamijee is so much stricken with hesitation to meet me?</sent>
				<sent id ="496">Shrirupgoswami was pleased of hear the comment about the spiritual knowledge of Miravai and told about the massage of Krishna.</sent>
				<sent id ="497">The name of devotee Miravai circulated everywhere.</sent>
				<sent id ="498">Miravai, devotee of Krishna showed the way to get God through love.</sent>
				<sent id ="499">The friendly terms were made between the Hindu and Muslim communities by this musical trend.</sent>
				<sent id ="500">This friendly terms which expressed through an alliance the name of that trend is called Bhaktivad.</sent>
				<sent id ="501">All classes of human being are equal in the eye of the religion of Bhagavat and Bhaktivad and in the sufism of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="502">Henceforth, again one day Miravai started journey to Dwaraka after giving u the activities in Vrajadham.</sent>
				<sent id ="503">Coming to Dwarka she passed her last days of life by meditating and worshiping the image of Ranachorjee.</sent>
				<sent id ="504">In this Dwarakadham her earthly activities were concealed.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
