<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-homeEco-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.831</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">214</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2726</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">936</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t168">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The mental development of children is as important as their physical development.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">Both body and mind are inseparable.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Mind remains fresh if physical condition is good.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Again physical growth depends upon the mental development.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Height, weight, physical structure and ability to work indicate the physical development of a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">But mental development can not be measured in short time or by two or three instances.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Intelligence, consideration, knowledge, experience, skill, capability, logical thinking, efficiency and ability to adjust are the elements of mental development.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">These qualities can be acquired not only by reading books and attending school but also by doing different kinds of activities in practical life.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">These activities should be wide, diverse and interesting.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Arrangement should be made so that students can learn from their family, society and environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Curricular and co curricular activities are helpful for the mental development of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The role of recreation is no less important in this connection.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Students, after attending classes and doing different activities at a stretch in the school, become physically tired and mentally bored.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">It affects their intelligence, skill and ability to gain knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Then they need leisure in order to get rid of this boredom.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Leisure does not mean only sleeping and sitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The creative activities which students do to make the leisure time meaningful and interesting are called recreational activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The management of school should include some recreational activities suitable to the age and mentality of the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Recreation contributes a lot to the overall development of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">There are two kinds of recreational systems for the mental development of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">These programmes should be well planned and included in the yearly calendar of the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Time and place of the yearly visit should be.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Short time recreation does not cost much.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">So these kinds of activities can be arranged now and then.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In town areas there are some small and big children parks.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">But the children of rural areas are deprived of these kinds of facilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">They play in the filed, swim in the pond, climb up the trees and eat various fruits and get mental pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">It needs a big area to build a children park or a common park.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The children park of Dhaka is remarkable and it encompasses a big area.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Here they do not have any routine work.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">They can do whatever they like.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">This kind of environment refreshes their mind removing pains, sorrows, anxiety and monotony.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The parks are decorated with different types of equipments of games such as dolna, charka, trains, motor cars, sea-saw, boats etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Riding all these things, the children get pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">At the same time they acquire different kinds of skills and experiences.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Using these skills, they can be successful in different sectors in their life.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">From the equipments of games they can form an idea about shape, size and colour of things and different kinds of metals.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Children can learn about the equipments of games and their names.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">They are acquainted with different trees and flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Besides, after coming out the family environment they form different ideas about different things and improve their vocabulary, which helps them to learn the language.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Children are fond of imitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">They exchange their views with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">They learn new words, style and expressions and can express these through games and sports.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">They learn to share in the park and learn from this experience how to give and take.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">In many parks there is system of tickets so that the visitors can stay in a place for certain period.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">This system is introduced so that all get equal opportunity to enjoy the park.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">If a boy occupies an item for a long time, other boys/girls will be deprived.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Thus they learn to maintain discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">When they stand in a queue, they learn patience and punctuality.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Through the help of social qualities, they acquire the skill to adjust themselves in different environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">This is the example of the development of children's intelligence.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">There are many kinds of trees of flowers and fruits.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">It is almost prohibited to tear leaves or to pluck flowers, which children learn from guardians or other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">So in the park children not only get aesthetic pleasure but also acquire knowledge and experience, which is helpful for their mental development.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">There are parks beside some houses that provide with sitting arrangement, garden and beautiful natural scenery.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Children can get rid of monotony of daily life if they go out with their parents in leisure.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">They also get opportunity of creative thinking under the open sky.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">They can learn and understand each other while gossiping together.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">So parents should have the mentality to take their children to the parks very often.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">This is a place where various kinds of animals and birds are kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">Almost all the children have the curiosity about a zoo.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">They express their interest to see animals in zoo after seeing their pictures in books.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Many parents take their children to zoo in weekly holidays and in other vacations.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">It is a very interesting medium for recreation.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Children can learn about animals and their names from a zoo.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">They can have the idea of the places, where particular types of animals are found.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">They also have the idea of those places or countries.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It helps them to increase their vocabulary.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">They can also know what the animals eat and in which weather they survive and how long they live.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">This practical knowledge can help them to write essays in the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">They can also improve their geographical knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In the zoo there are many trained animals such as elephants, tigers, monkeys, horses etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">They dance, make different kinds of sounds, and show different gesture when they see people.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Small children enjoy it a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">They get mental pleasure forgetting sorrows and anxieties.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">As there are many things to learn in a zoo, so visiting zoo should be included in the school programme as study tour.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Boys and girls can enjoy it more with their classmates.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Boys and girls come to see a zoo by hiring a bus from a long distance.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">To remove boredom and monotony they come to see the animals of the zoo and it brings a change in their mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Museum The main museum of Bangladesh is in Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">But there are some small local museums in some district towns.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">In the museum rare, valuable antiques are kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">It is a place where works of arts and crafts, educational and historical things are kept for the exhibition of the common people.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">A museum is a resourceful institution for learners to acquire knowledge and for researchers to get valuable and authentic information.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Pictures of ancient kings and queens, statues, arms and ammunition, furniture used by ancient people, dress, domestic utensils are preserved in the museum.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The children can form an idea about the ancient people.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">They can learn about their way of living, the structure of their bodies etc. and can make comparison between past and present.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">It gives them pleasure and helps them to increase their thinking power.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Children learn about the arms and ammunition used in the liberation war of Bangladesh and other wars and become excited.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">They have already read these in their text books.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">When they find similarity between the theoreti cal and practical knowledge, the experience is imprinted in their minds permanently.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">They feel interested to know more and more.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Besides general museums, there are other museums such as science museum, art museum and historical museum.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Scientific apparatus and discoveries are displayed here.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The picture of landing on the moon, the history of rocket and invention of computer are presented in an interesting and attractive way.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Boys and girls can enrich their store of knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Art museum Rare painting collections of the prominent artists are displayed here.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">In the museum of Jainal Abedin, paintings of water colour and oil, statues made of earth and other metals have been kept nicely.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Seeing all these children get inspiration to draw pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">They can form idea about different types of pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">They also get pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The history of the past and various events are shown through various artistic things.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">The lives and activities of rulers who ruled our country in different ages are shown through art and literature.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Many documents of ancient Bengal are kept in the museum.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">We can learn the life style of the ancient people.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">It also helps in the mental development of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Picnic is a recreational arrangement for going to a nice place, eating together and making fun to get rid of monotonous life.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Picnic is a yearly co-curricular activity of the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">It is very difficult for the parents to go a long distance with their little children.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">School teachers can arrange a picnic for them.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">While going to a picnic some responsibilities are given to the boys and girls such as collecting subscription, keeping accounts, hiring vehicles etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">By this they develop leadership qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Their efficiency increases when they prepare foods, distributes, and keep things neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Besides eating and drinking, they arrange different cultural programmes.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Lottery and other competitive games are arranged.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">It improves their mental faculties.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">They can remove their physical tiredness and mental boredom.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">They are refreshed after watching natural beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">They regain strength and get inspiration for study again.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">They get an opportunity to express their views to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">Human and social qualities such as co-operation, sympathy, patience, truthfulness develop in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">It helps to develop their creativity.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Guardians and teachers should apply coordinated efforts to arrange this kind of short time recreation for the mental development of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Long time recreation is to go to a distant beautiful place and to spend some days there to refresh body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Children can visit historical places, sea beach, spend days in the native village to shake off monotony of daily life.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Some educational institutions arrange this type of excursion.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It is generally good for the students of S.S.C and above classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Long excursion with primary level students may be difficult.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">But students of upper classes enjoy a lot.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">This kind of arrangement has direct influence on the physical and mental development of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">For long time recreation there is some preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">To make budget for every head such as bus fair, accommodation, meal and other expenditure.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">To collect subscriptions from the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">To make a plan how to perform all activities there.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">To make arrangement to meet accident such as keeping first aid box.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">To distribute the responsibilities among the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Management system for long time recreation is described below.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Bangladesh is an ancient country.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">It has a long history.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Many nations have come to rule this country in different ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Many places such as buildings, statues, writings engraved on walls or stones, ponds are known as historical places.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">These are taught through the text books of history, social science and Bangla in different classes.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">While reading, they feel interested to see all these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Learners get pleasure when they are acquainted with these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Lalbag Fort, Bara Katra, Chota Katra, Sonargaon, Pari Bibi's Mazar, Hossini Dalan etc are the historical places of Dhaka.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">On holidays a short visit to these places may meet the curiosities of school children to know and learn.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">They can increase their knowledge by collecting historical information.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">They can enjoy the verities of life by moving from one place to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Even with the change of weather, body and mind regains its lost strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Visiting many places they get opportunity to mix with various persons in the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">It helps them to vercome narrowness of mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Direct acquaintance with life and society they can broaden their mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Besides, historical evidence helps them improve their thinking power.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Being free from monotony of life, they enjoy pleasure forgetting all pains.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Their sense of responsibility also increases doing different activities such as planning the programme, selecting the place, organizing the team etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Their leadership qualities also improve.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">They learn to live disciplined life and to obey social rules and customs.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">All these things are helpful for the development of their mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">A child can form an image of his native village from the words of his family members even without seeing it.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">In the childhood, boys and girls read many stories, poems, essays relating villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">They develop love and affection for villages if they are sent to their villages in the vacation for recreation.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">It will help them to grow patriotism.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">They will learn to love the people of the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">They will help them in the time of crisis.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">In future they will work for the welfare of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Children will be attracted to the natural beauty of their own village.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">It appeals to their poetic mind when they see the river and canals flowing beside the village.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">From there they get the theme of writing poems and drawing pictures.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">It inspires their creative faculty They also get the practical knowledge of catching fish in the rivers and ponds.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Being away from the busy urban life, when the children find themselves in bounties of nature, they get mental strength.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">They feel ashamed of uttering the name of their villages.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">This type of mentality should be changed in the early boyhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Cox's Bazar sea beach is one of the renowned tourist spots in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">People can go there for long time recreation.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">If somebody spends two or three days there, he/she can move around the sea beach and enjoy the beauty of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">On the shore, the sights of ebb and flow, the sunset and sun rise create wonderful feelings.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Children get excited when they see people bathing in the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">People go for a walk on the sea shore in the evening.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">There they can gather various experiences by being introduced and gossiping with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Small children imitate others and acquire social and moral qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">This type of environment refreshes body and mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Going to sea beach in a group provides children with the opportunity to understand each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">They can learn the qualities of living together.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">At night the scene of lighted moving ships and boats is very charming.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">These kinds of enjoyment remove the tiredness of mind and make children forget their daily roblems.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">They also get pleasure in collecting various kinds of shells.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">They go back to their houses with these shells.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">This also helps them develop the of collection.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">But children must always be careful while moving in the beach or bathing in the sea.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The sea wave may cause accident any time.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Bangladesh is a land of natural beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">We enjoy different views of nature in different seasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">We can not enjoy it by reading books and watching television in the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">When people become tired and bored working for days together, they want to spend time in a beautiful place to remove the monotony of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Travelling is one of the sources of kind of pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">This universe is a wonderful creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">All the natural beauties, various animals in different places of the world are the creation of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">We can not enjoy the beauties and bounties of nature without travelling different parts of the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">There are many places in Bangladesh where we can enjoy the beauty of nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">The beauty of the hills of Sylhet, Chittagong, Comilla is very charming.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">The forests of Jaydebpur, Madhupur, Sundarbans, and Chittagong have endless beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Visiting these places with family members one can get opportunity to gather practical knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">People carry the memory of these places for long.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Travelling various places people can be free of mental narrowness.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">They can find endless pleasure in their lives and ociety.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">They can make a bridge between imagination and reality.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">This sort of travelling has direct influence in acquiring knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">This visit make people familiar with life styles of different kinds of people.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">After being acquainted and exchanging views with them, they can develop a relation of love and friendship and get heavenly pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">This kind of environment influences the mental and social development of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">There are different types of communication system for travelling such as rail path, road, river path, sea route and air.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Travelling through different transports gives different and unique experience.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">No worldly achievement can provide more pleasure than this.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">For this reason travelling is an important aspect of recreation.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
