<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-homeEco-7</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.93</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">366</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4262</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1289</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t172">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Common Diseases of Children, Contagious diseases and Precautions of contagious diseases Immunity of children is very low.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The children, who are born with normal weight and height, who are fed for four months breast feeding, possess more preventive power against disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">For this reason they are not easily attacked by disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">But if they are not properly taken care properly, and are not timely vaccinated, they are easily attacked by contagious diseases, common fever and cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">A number of children always suffer from some of the diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">For this reason they are always late in overall growth and development.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Generally, children suffer from diseases for various causes which are given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">If weight and height of the children are less than normal at the time of birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Immature and pre-mature birth of baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">If mother suffers from diseases like measles, small pox, tropical fever etc during pregnancy.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Want of sufficient care after birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Non-breast fed children are less immune to diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Colostram from mother first breast milk increases immunity.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The diseases which spread easily from one body to another are called contagious diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">These diseases are very easily transmitted directly or indirectly and make children sick.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Some contagious diseases can be spread by contact.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">There are three ways of contamination of contagious diseases in the children body.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Cholera, typhoid and dysentery are water borne diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The germs of these diseases enter into the body during taking food and drink through mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">They are also infected with disease when they inhale contaminated air and dust.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The germs of cold, influenza, tuberculosis, small pox enter into the body through respiratory organs also.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">The germs of tetanus, hydrophobia, gangrene enter into the body through skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">If a contagious disease is detected, it should be informed to the local authority.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">They will take necessary action.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">They will take the infected person to the hospital so that other persons are not attacked by the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">The infected person should be separated from others.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">He should be kept in isolation.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">All articles used by the infected person should be disinfected with soap and hot water.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Cloths should be washed with boiled water and savlon and dried in the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Used articles of the patient should not be brought outside.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">None but the nursing person should enter the room of the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">The nursing person should wash his hands and legs and change his cloths before entering the room of the persons of sound health.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Arrangement should be mode to provide vaccination with those who are not yet infected.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">All the articles and clothing should be washed and dried in the sun for disinfection.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">After recovery from the disease the room, wall, floor should be wiped with hot water and other germ killing liquids.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">If needed, the wall should be white washed and painted.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Local people should be informed about contagious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">This advertisement can be done through adviser, health worker and poster.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">One can save others by making them aware of contagious disease in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">We can assemble persons of some families and can tell them about the cause of infection, symptoms and preventive measures against a contagious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">We must exchange our opinions specially with the members of several families in the village about common rules of keeping good health.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">We should also inform people where to get required medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Besides, we should inform them where they can get free medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">We should make them aware in which condition a patient is to be taken to the hospital.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Normal temperature of the human body is 98.4o F. The temperature of a child is 99o, a little more, which is considered to be normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">If the temperature of a child is more than 99o, then it is fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The temperature of a child increases when it catches cold, feels pain in the throat and takes vaccination.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">After detecting cause of fever, patients should be treated according to doctor's advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">They should be given proper medicine and diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">In case of low fever, the patient should not be covered with so many clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">He should be given full rest in a place of proper ventilation.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">If needed, his head should be washed and body should be sponged.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Sweating of a child is the sign of being relieved of fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Then the patient feels comfort of the sweat is wiped with cloth and the hands, legs and body are sponged.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">He should be given enough liquid diet so that toxic element in the body should be washed out with urine.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Fruit juice, glucose, lemon juice, fish, meat, vegetable, soup, light milk are more useful during the fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">After complete remission of fever a child is to be given nutritious diet to make up the losses for illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Children of 1 - 5 years suffer from high fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">During high fever temperature may rise about 104o F or more.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">This degree of temperature may increase due to some serious infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">High fever is a matter of damaging factor for a child.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Parents should be very careful if temperature rises.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">They should take measures so that temperature may fall very soon.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">High temperature may damage the brain or nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">There are four ways to bring down the fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">1.Temperature Decreasing: Unnecessary cloths should be avoided during high- fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Only cotton clothing is the best for absorbing sweat from the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Light bed sheet can be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Measures should be taken for proper ventilation.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">If the patient does not 70 Home Economics allow the water pouring on head, ice bag can be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">A wet- cloth can also be used on the forehead in case of high fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Water on the forehead should be softly wiped off immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Small pieces of ice in the ice bag may be used for sponging the body to reduce fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">After sponging, body should be rubbed softly with a dry towel or soft cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">If fever is 104o F-105o F, then the patient can bathe at that time for remission of high fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">At this fever can be reduced 2o-3o.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">For this type of fever medicine from Paracitamol group is the best.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">If patient vomits within 45 minutes, Paracitamol is given to the patient again.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">It is necessary to take doctor's advice for applying medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Antibiotic can also be given in case of infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">We should be careful about the diet of a patient with fever for various causes.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Metabolic rate is high in time of fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">So the patient needs extra calorie.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Due to perspiration salt and liquid portion of the body gets exhausted.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">So the need for water, sodium and potassium increases.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">For the prolonged illness many cells are decayed in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">For this Cause protein intake should also be high.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Immunization power decreases in time of illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">So food ingredients like itamins should be supplied through diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Generally easy digestible and good foods are to be selected for patients.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">During any fever a child should be given mixed food of fish, meat, vegetables and rice that must be mixed up together with pulse.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Protein can be supplied by fatless fish, chicken, milk and bread.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">It is an air-borne dangerous disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">If anybody comes to direct contact of a patient, he is attacked by the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">The germ mixes with air through spit, sneeze, and cough.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">A sound person inhales the influenza germ and then he becomes infected.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">The immunisation capacity of the children is low.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">So they are infected easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Cause : The germ called bacillus influenza is the cause of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Symptom : Fever, prostration, cough, headache and heart weakness and mental depression are the symptoms of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Respiratory tube is inflamed sometimes and the patient feels pain in throat.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Treatment: Antibiotic is not effective for this disease because it is a viral fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Generally aspirin group of medicine, cough-syrup, sulpha or penicillin may be used.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Anti-histamine medicine may be used for sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Patients should be kept away from cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Otherwise influenza may turn to bronchitis.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Patient should have some rest during fever or after fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Good diet should be taken this time.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Instead of solid food children can take vegetables and chicken soup.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Parents can feed their children enough fruits, milk and easily digestible foods regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Patients must be isolated from other members.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Their cloths should be disinfected every time they must wear warm clothes and take rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">A handkerchief should be used to prevent droplet.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Only a nursing person can enter the patient's room.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">A well ventilated room is a must for the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">The patient must avoid crowds and try to protect himself from cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Exercise, rest, food should be according to the rule of health.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Children should not be sent to the school if influenza spreads in an epidemic form.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Besides, the patient should avoid bus, train and market and other common crowded places.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Frequent and excessive discharge of watery faeces is called diarrhoea.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">It is a dangerous health problem in developing country and one of the main causes of the death of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">From a survey of the world Health organisation, it is found that every year 130 crore children suffer from diarrhoea and 40 lac children die.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">It is one of the water borne diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The hidden and harmful germs in unclean dirty food are the causes of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">While he children are fed complementary food along with breast feeding, they suffer from this disease very often.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Frequent and excessive faeces will be discharged.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Vomiting tendency, abdominal pain and temperature may be associated with diarrhoea.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Food can not stay in the stomach for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">As a result it is not digested properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Food particles come out with faeces, water balance is lost in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">So stool is likely to be watery.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Throat and tongue may be dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Children get their weight lost immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Skin of the nose becomes loose.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Not to give any food to the children or to stop breast feeding for sometime is common misconception of the mothers in our country.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Breast feeding must not be stopped at any situation because breast feeding is the only dependable source for the children during their stomach problem.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Only fibre-food is stopped in case of diarrhoea.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">One of the important discoveries of the time is ORS or oral saline.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">It is possible to save the children from death caused by diarrhoea.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">During strong diarrhoea if oral- saline is not possible then give saline by I.V. process.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Be careful about drinking water and foods.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Drink boiled water and milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Foods should be covered all the times to protect flies and other insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Hot food must be taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Used food or stale food should be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">All utensils for dining should be washed with hot and soapy water.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Fruits and vegetables should be taken after washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Patients cloths and utensils like plate, bowl, towel etc should not be used by others.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Always wash hands and face before eating.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Patients stools and urine should be covered under ground.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">It is an acute and highly infectious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Usually when one part of the body is affected by measles, it spread all over the body gradually.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Children are the main victims of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">A thickly populated area is the ideal place for spreading measles.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Blood, cough and sneeze carry the germs of measles.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Measles is an airborne disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">It spreads through the used things of a patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">One gets infected when one comes in close contact of a patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">It spreads before one knows that he has been infected.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Therefore it is difficult to stop it.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The incubation period is 8-14 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">That means it appears in the body within 8-14 days after the germ has entered.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Early symptoms are cold-runny nose, congestion, sneezing, watery eyes, coughing and fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">There is a cold feeling , headache and high fever that rises up to 104o - 1050 .</sent>
				<sent id ="165">After 3/4 days rash may appear in the mouth, the fever rises and rash spreads all over the body, neck and eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Eyes become red and infection in the throat causes cough.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Children can not take food and vomit.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">After 4/5 days measles appears in the head.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">When measles spreads all the body it swells.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Then gradually fever subsides.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Measles rashes take 9/10 days to dry up.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">Treatment is given by doctors for the remission of fever, cough or illness.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Aspirin group of medicine and cough syrup may be given as per doctor's advice.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">If fever is complicated, more care should be taken.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Children may suffer from pneumonia, bronchitis and complexities of throat and ears with measles.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The patient should be hospitalised for the best treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Measles isfollowed by pain in the throat and ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">In this case antibiotics are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">If treatment is delayed, brain may be affected.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Eye and eyelids may inflame due to rashes and irritation may occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">In this case a patient needs a dark calm and soundless room.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Due to throat infection can not shallow the solid food.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">They need liquid food.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Mouth and throat should be washed carefully 3/4 times a day if possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Patients should be saved from cold and kept in a warm room.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Patients should be in the mosquito net in an isolated room.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Used items and clothes of the patients should also be kept aloof.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Nurses should change their dresses before coming out of the patient's room to meet others.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Always wash hands and face carefully with soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">No people should enter into the room of the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">After remission of fever a child can come out but should not be allowed to play with other children for a week at least.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Measles can be best prevented by active immunization.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Only live attenuated vaccines are recommended for use.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">They are both safe and effective.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Children should be immune to measles by vaccination at age of one year.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Diphtheria is an acute infectious airborne disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">It is a highly infectious disease among the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Mortality rate is high in case of serious diphtheria.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">The disease is spread mainly by droplet infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">It can also be transmitted directly to susceptible persons from infected persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">As immunity of children is low, they are easily attacked.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Symptoms of the disease include sore throat, hoarseness, rasping cough and fever.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Children may be nauseous, and suffer from headache in addition to other symptoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">A thin yellowish layer forms over the tonsil.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Gradually it spreads over the throat.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Then it becomes difficult to swallow anything.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">It disturbs breathing system.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">When it intensifies, the diphtheria germ emits a very strong poisonous matter which is very harmful for heart and nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Diphtheria closes the voice cord and breathing cord.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Water secretion from the mouth of the children can be seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Patient must be hospitalised.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Swabs should be taken from throat and examined and cultured for diphtheria bacilli.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">When diphtheria is suspected, diphtheria antitoxin should be given without delay.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">For immunizing, other infants are to be given DPT vaccine as early as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Sometimes it becomes impossible to take food by mouth and even to breath.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Then the patient is given liquid food through a tube making a hole in throat.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Cough is clean in the same manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">When the patient gets recovery the hole is stitched.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Preventive measures The patient should be isolated from other members.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Used cloths and utensils of the patients should not be used by others rather they should be washed to be disinfected.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Other children of the family should be given injections so that they do not get infected.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Vaccines should be given by three doses to the children for immunization.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">The patient should be treated in the hospital.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">It is an infectious and complicated disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Primarily it is a disease of children below two years.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The way children are infected by the germs of whooping cough is just like diphtheria.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Children suffer from this disease more than they suffer from diphtheria.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Symptoms of this disease can be seen within five to fourteen days of infection.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">At first the child is attacked by a simple cough.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">But the cough is dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">In first seven days the cough is mild but gradually from the second week there is an irritating cough.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Children also vomit with coughing.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Respiratory trouble also starts with coughing.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Blood gets deposited in the eyes by continuous coughing.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Usually it takes one month for recovery.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">In severe cases it may linger month after month.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Children should be taken to the doctors as soon as the disease is diagnosed.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">After through investigation and examination medicine can be given accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">Children need rest at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Excessive games or work aggravate the condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">If a child cannot take solid food for coughing it can take liquid easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">But the liquid diet should be nutritious and given frequently for extra energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Medicine of whooping cough is same as the medicine of simple sough.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Children should stay in a well ventilated room.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Excessive clothing should be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Due to excessive sweating a child may get cold and coughing may start again.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The infected child should not be allowed to play with other children.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">In whooping cough vomiting is common.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">So a child needs frequent feeding.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Meal or feeding may be given right after vomiting.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">After twomonths of age and within six months a child should be given injection of D.P.T to prevent this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Polio The short name of poliomyelitis is Polio.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">It attacks the ash-coloured matter of central nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Sometimes it causes paralysis of muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Children are generally victims of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Adult persons are also attacked with this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">If the respiratory muscles are attacked, that may cause death.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Most of the people believe that the result of polio cases is always paralysis of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">But it is not true in all cases.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Many people get cured instead of being paralysed.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Poliomyelitis is an acute viral infection caused by a kind of virus germs.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">It enters into the body through respiratory tube.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Children are usually attacked by this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Incubation period of this disease is usually 7 to 18 days.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">This disease starts with sudden fever, sometimes with cough, vomiting and loose motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">It is a dangerous disease for infants.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Nervous system may be destroyed by it.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">As a result some parts of the body become paralysed pain occurs in the legs and high fever follows.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">After three or four days the child can not move some parts of the body, specially legs and hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">It also attacks the respiratory muscles.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">This type of muscle attack may be the cause of the child's death.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Like other viral diseases, cure of poliomyelitis is difficult.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Leg muscles are affected severely by this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Instant care is required for the polio treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Sufficient help and rest is necessary for lessening the damage of muscle and nervous system.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Apply a hot wet towel to relieve pain.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Light and easy exercises may help muscle regain energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Exercise should be started just after massaging; Swimming is also helpful for polio.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">SALK VACCINE invented in America kills the polio virus.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Injection is the best way to push medicine in this case.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Polio patient is to be nursed with patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">It is to be understood that the patient feels disturbed and irritated easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Sometimes the attack of this disease is very slight and the patient seems to start recovery.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Again it may so happen that the patient feels that his whole body is paralised.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">This is the symptom of paralysis.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">For this reason when the disease is detected, the patient should be treated by doctors without wasting time.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">As the disease is contagious, the patient should be kept in isolation The patient should be kept in isolation for one week.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">Those who are not infected should not go near an infected child.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">When the disease is dictated, treatment of the patient should be started.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">After two months of birth, the children should be given polio vaccine and oral drop.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">Then it will be possible to protect children from polio.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">It is a highly contagious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">In the past days tuberculosis was one of the main causes of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Due to invention of medicine and preventive measures, this disease can hardly causes death now a days.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">German scientist Robert Cork on April 20 in 1882 discovered that tuberculosis has its own bacterium which is the cause of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">It is an air borne organism that enters into the respiratory track and affects lungs.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">It can also affect muscles of bone and shoulders and of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">There are three ways of entrance of organism in the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Respiratory track: The germs of tuberculosis mix with air through sneezes and coughs etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">A person is infected when he comes close to aninfected person.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Mouth: The milk of the diseased cow is another source of tuberculosis.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">When we drink milk the germ enters through the mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Skin: Tuberculosis germs live in dust.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">When the skin comes in contact with it the germs may enter through the skin.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">The main symptom of this disease is cough for long days along with other symptoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Loss of appetite, fever in the evening, sweating at the end of night and sometimes blood with cough are the other symptoms.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The child will look tired, it will lose weight.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Sometimes the symptoms remain dormant.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">When it spreads, then it is exposed.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">In developed countries there is system of routine check up for the children to detect diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">This type of test can be done in our country too.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">There are hospitals for good treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">When symptoms are found, diagnosis of the disease should be made through examination of cough and X-ray.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Antibiotic should be given according to the instruction of the doctor.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">It needs a long course of treatment.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">If the definite ourse of medicine and treatment remains incomplete there is a possibility of future attack.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Treatment with discipline can cure the disease for ever.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Late starting of medicine and incomplete dosage may be the cause of death.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">For complete cure from this disease, the child should be given a long rest with rich and balanced diet.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Cough sputum and spittle are the main sources of this disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Patients should always use a handkerchief to prevent droplet in the air circulation.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">A pot with a H. lid should be there in the patient's room to spit on.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Children should be isolated from the patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">To save non-infected persons: The germs of tuberculosis may be present in a normal man.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">For this reason mantoux test is a must for the diagnosis of the disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">The modern preventive measure of tuberculosis is the BCG vaccine.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">After six week of the birth of a child, this vaccine is given.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Then the child can develop resistance power for five or six years.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">In big towns and industrial areas, where black smoke comes out from industries, all should be vaccinated.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Individual precaution: Avoid the contact of the infected persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Drink boiled milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">The children should be kept in well ventilated room.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">They should play in the open field.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Nutritious food should be given to increase preventive power as germs can attack a weak body easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">The plate, glass, spoon towel should not be used else unless it is disinfected through boiled water or medicine.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">State responsibilities: Housing should be carefully planned for the well being of the health of the people in a densely populated urban area.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">There should be the arrangement of medical check-up in the schools, colleges, mills and industries by the government medical officers.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">If necessary, X-ray should also be done by the government authority if any one is suspected.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">For the prevention of the disease there should be a regular vaccination programme throughout the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Breast fed babies naturally have some immunity against disease as long as they take breast milk.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">After six months this immunity gradually lowers down.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">For this vaccination is a must in due time to prevent different disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Three injections are to be given after every 1 or 2 months from the age of 2 months to 4 months of the baby.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">After one and half year or 2 years of 3rd injection booster dose is to be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">After 3 years of 1st booster dose or at the age of 5, 2nd booster dose is to be given.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">This injection should be given when the child is quite normal.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">When the injection is given, that past of the body becomes reddish and stiff.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">Sometimes temperature rises.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Then medicine can be given for relieving pain and temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Diphtheria and Tetanus may cause the death of children.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">The treatment of this disease is very difficult.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">So timely vaccination secures the life of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">This injection can be given within a few weeks after the birth of the child.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">The child feels pain after 2 or 3 weeks of injection pushed.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Fever and mild local reactions following BCG immunization are common.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">The wound is curable within 6 weeks.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Tuberculosis is a highly contagious disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">So vaccination is necessary as early as possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">Measles vaccine can be taken with 9 to 15 months of birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">Now the vaccine is given to the children in large numbers.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">For Women and Infants: Tetanus vaccine is offered in due course to infants and mothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Infection acquired by contamination of wounds with tetanus spores.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">It is also for the immunization of pre-natal child.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">Second does must be taken after 4 weeks of first dose.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Second dose is to be taken before one month of child's birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">If pregnant women takes the vaccine before pregnancy, she should take the vaccine of booster dose within 4-8 months of pregnancy.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
