<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-homeEco-17</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.784</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">276</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3380</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1108</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t166">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">In ancient time goat is the symbol of wild animal named as Bejoya and Ivex.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The Bengal species of goat is raised from the Bejoya species of Iran, 65% of goat of the whole world is tended in Asia.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">30% of goat is tended in Africa.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">nly rest of the 5% of goat is tended in America, Europe and Australia.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">From this information we can understand that goat is tended up mainly in densety populated area.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">In Bangladesh goats are mainly tend up in small family of farmers.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Goat is valuable asset of Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">There are many advantage of tending goat.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">All the members of the family including the young boys and girls can tend up the goats.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">It is an income generating works.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">A family can earn ten thousands take per year by tending 4-6 goats.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The goat is called the cow of poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Most of the people of Bangladesh are poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">There is want of protein in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The milk and mutton of goats fulfill our needs of protein.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">So by tending goats we can fulfill this need.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The poultry feeds can get from the stomach of goat.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The foreign currency can earn by the export of goat skin or leather.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The leather of back Bengal hat a high demand in abroad.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The processing industry of bone, horn, milk and meat is very important for this county.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">A small industry can build for such as nutritious food of goat.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">So that is can raise income, self employment and earn foreign currency.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">An expending programmed has taken from the government to teach the importance of tending goats to the farmer.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Small family farm and commercial farm can build form this service support.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Different types of farms can build according to the amount of property and facility.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Small family farm: This farm can build by 2-5 goats.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Tending goats in open field : 8-10 goats can tend by this process.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Semi intensive goat farm: A goat can be grazed in field at day time and can be kept in farm at night for caring.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Intensive goat farm : Goat can be tending up in kept for caring.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Integrated goat farm: Goats can be tending up in fruits orchard like coconut, brilttlenut, mangoes, jack fruits, guava and litchis.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">So that is generates income both from the garden and the goats.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">It is mentionable that in every village there need to tending one he-goat for every 10-15 she-goat.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">One can avail any of these facilities by getting support service from the government.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">A model can be followed for building and expanding a goat farm in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Preservation of seeds in porcelain pot, plastic pot, polythene coated earthen pot and in paper packet.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">After keeping seeds in a porcelain pot it should be covered with a lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">The cover should be made air tight with a paste of paddy husk, cow dung and clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">This paste is used surrounding the cover of the pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">If paddy husks are not available only clay and cow dung can do.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Tight up the cover with a paste of paddy husk, cowdung and clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Then make it air tight with a scotch tap surrounding the lid or put a polythene sheet in the cover and then make it tight.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Cover the pot with the lid.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Preservation of seeds in the earthen pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Put a polythene sheet in the earthen pot.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Then keep the seed in the polythene.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Close the pot with a lid and sealed it with the paste of cow dung and clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Special types of packets are made with craft paper or thick brown paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">These packets are filled with seeds and sealed with a scotch tap.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">A cover is Paper-packets scaled with a scotch tap attached with top of the packet.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The packet looks like an envelop.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">There is a button like small wheel on the opening side of the packet.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">A thread is attached with the cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">This thread is to be twisted arround the button.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Remove the lid of the patry dish.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Spread a bolting paper on the bottom of the dish according to its size.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Sprinkle pure water on the blotting paper in such a way that the paper is just soaked.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Remove excess water.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Spread the selected seeds on the blotting paper in such a way so that the seeds are separated from each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Cover the patry-dish with a lid; keep the patry dish in a shady and airy place.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Remove the lid time to time for aeration.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">If the water of blotting paper is dried up it needs to make wet with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Vegetables seeds need 3-4 days sometime 7 days to germinate.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">If the seed coat is hard it takes more time.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Oral saline packets are available in market.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Saline is prepared according to the instruction on the packet.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It is taken during diarrhoea and loose motion.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Some times, this packet may not be available.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">In the village shops or market are far from the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">So it is not possible to buy oral saline if necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">So every one need to know how to prepare oral saline.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">The class teacher will demonstrate the preparation of oral saline.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Food is cooked in different methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">So the taste and nature of food vary.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">If the vegetables are boiled or fried it would be a great difference in its colour, flavour, and nature and in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">The difference is also there between baked food and roasted food.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Generally the food is prepared in the following methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">What ever the cooking method is, we should be careful that the food value is not lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">So one should know the method of cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Food value should be taken in cutting, washing, heating and serving of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Care should be maintained in every stage of cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Experience and skill are necessary for preparation of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Before starting cooking, there are many steps of preparation.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Many processes have to be followed in every stage.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">They are called the techniques of cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">One will be skilled by following different techniques of preparation of food and cooked food should be served according to the nature of the food.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">For example hot food should be served in hot and cold food when it is cold so that the attraction and appetite for food increase.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">For good cooking fresh and quality ingredients as well as proper washing, cutting and mixing method is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Different types of cooking need different types of cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The cutting processes of vegetables or potatoes are different for cooking meat and vegetable.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">For frying vegetable small pieces are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">For cooking Niramish (mixed vegetables) different type of cutting is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Many types of instruments are available in the market for cutting.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">These instruments are used for cutting vegetables instead of da, boti,or knife it would be perfect and consume less time and energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">It is easy to grate carrot and papya with a grater (kuruni) instead of boti.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">(A) Different method of cutting vegetables - For making different food with vegetable cutting method is also different.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Vegetable has to be cut in a different way for preparation of (varta) smash, fry (Vagi), mixed vegetables (Niramish), chopslice, and chowmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">For fry very small piece, for niramish big piece, morobba and for pickles (achar) longer pieces are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">On the other hand, for cooking fish, diagonal piece and for Chinese food, sliced vegetables are needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Ridge gourd (jhinga), snake gourd (chichinga) bottle gourd (lao), pumpkin are sliced or striped in various sizes after removing the peel for cooking fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Pumpkin and eggplant can be fried after slicing.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">On the other hand different vegetables are sliced into small pieces and then mix for cooking vegetables.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">A green mango is cut into 5 to 6 slice for preparation of pickles (achar).</sent>
				<sent id ="103">pumpkins and cucumbers are cut in to stripe for morabba.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Sharp knife or boti is required for striping.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Piece of vegetable, which are cut into round, longer, square or triangular shape with a sharp knife or boti are called slice.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Slice can be done with sharp knife or boti.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">But now a days, different types of vegetable slicers are available in market for making different types of slice.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Vegetables and fruits are perfectly cut into slice within a short time with these machines.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">For decorating salad cucumber, carrot, tomato beat, onion, coriander leaf, green chilli, lettus leaves are sliced into different shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Different shapes and sizes of sliced vegetable are mixed with Chinese fried rice, chicken with vegetable and vegetable soup.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">The slice of vegetables are needed for chap sue and Chawmin.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Before slicing all vegetables are to be washed, cleaned and peeled off.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">If vegetable are washed after slicing, the food value of the vegetables will be lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Chopping means to cut the vegetable into very small pieces like meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Before chopping it should be washed and cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Chopping of vegetable can be done with sharp boti as leafy vegetable is done.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">When chopping with boti a clean dish can be put under the boti for putting chopped vegetable.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">On the other hand chopping can be done on the chopping or cutting board.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Carrot, pumpkin, papaya and radishes are chopped for cooking fried rice.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Onion, chilli, coriander leaf and mint are chopped for mixing with food.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The food value of the food especially the water soluble vitamins are lost if the vegetable is washed after chopping.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Carrot, potato and papaya or bottle gourd(lau) is scraped by a scrapper.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">After scraping vegetables look like fibre or root.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Scraped vegetables with milk are generally used for cooking sweet item.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Before scraping the vegetable should be washed, cleaned and peeled off.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Then the vegetables are cut into big pieces so that the big piece can be hold against the scraper.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Many people can cut with a boti as good as scraper.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">But it takes time and may not be accurate in size.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Scrapers are made of steel or tin.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Different types of scrapers are available in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">For the preparation of roast, kalia and korma chicken are used.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Chicken are slaughtered for cooking.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The meat of a slaughtered animal is cut into pieces after removing its head, legs, wings, skin and inner parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Before cutting into pieces the chicken should be cleaned.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The whole chicken or its parts are roasted according to need.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">If it needs to cut into pieces, generally the four pieces are done from a whole chicken.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Thus it is made four pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Kalia is a chicken curry with or without potato.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">For this chicken are cut into four pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Four pieces are taken from the two legs and wings and four pieces from rest of the body.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">The body is sliced at length and breadth.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Thus it makes eight pieces.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Some vegetables like patol and bitter gourd are cut vertically from one side to remove the seeds from inside to prepare dolma.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Then fried fish and or meat are stuffed inside.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Then this vegetable are tied around with a thread and then cooked.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">This is known as dolma.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">It is necessary to remove peel of potol but not the bitter gourd.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Like kalia chicken should be cut into eight pieces for korma.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Transparent Polythene packet is more suitable for packing food for selling and carrying.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Because air can not enter in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Food stuff can be seen from the out side.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Before selling of packet food it should be sealed with BSTI (Bangladesh Standard Testing Institute) for the confirmation of accurate packing and quality of food.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">During packing we should be careful that water, air or dust has not entered into the packet.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The food will be taken within a period of time that is the colour, flavour, test and size will remain same.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">If it is not sealed properly the food stuff will be spoiled within a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Preparation date, expiry date, food value, name of the company should be sealed in the packet.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Other wise it should be printed in separate paper and then enclosed it with the packet.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">It gives the guarantee of selling.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">In school students can pack food for supplying it in shops.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The student learns the technique of packing and can do it with the members of the family for selling it in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">This increases the income of the school.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Fry the chira.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Put two table spoonful of chira with molasses in a pot and put on the oven.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Stir quickly in low temperature.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">When it is sticky, keep the chira in it and keep it in the oven for some more time.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Stir it is ready to make balls.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">Divide the whole thing into ten parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Put some water or oil on the palms.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Take each part of warm thing, press it with the palms to make a round ball, serve when it is cool.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Pack 8 balls in a polythene bag and seal to make it air tight.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">These can be carried and eaten while on tour.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">When a packet is opened and all balls are not taken, the remaining balls may not be damped.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">So one should be careful while packing.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Thus make large or small packet according to need.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Mix 3 table spoons water with molasses and put it in a pan and the pan on the oven.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Stir frequently on mild heat.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">When it becomes sticky, pour muri on the pan and mix it with molasses by stirring and then remove it from the oven.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Divide in 20 balls.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Put some water or oil on the palms then take warm thing and press it by the palms to make it round.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Serve it when cold.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">These balls can be preserved in packet in air tight tin container.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">You can supply the packet of four balls in the market for sale.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">These can also be preserved at home for many days.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Fish ball (Fresh water fish or sea fish) Fish ball can be made in the same way like meatballs.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Fish ball is free from fish bone.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">So it can be easily taken by children and old persons.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Sea fish is available in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Nutritional value is higher in sea fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Variety of food can be prepared from sea fish.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Fresh water fish can also be used to prepare balls.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Fleshy fish (in which bones are less) like rui, vetki etc are suitable for preparation of balls.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Put both ends of thread of needle together and make a knot.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Drive the needle from below to up ward front side.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Then start stitching button hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Stitch from the right hand side (as shown in drawing).</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Complete it carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Do not put stress on run stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">You can always stitch conveniently if you just hold the cloth on your side.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Buttons can be fixed in many methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">One method is shown here.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Usually there are two or four holes buttons are fixed to the clothes with needle and threat through these holes.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Select the place for fixing button on the clothes, mark it with a pencil.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Put buttons on the mark of the cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Put thread with needle.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Bring both the ends of threads together and put a knot at both ends of threads.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Then pierce the needle with thread, through the holes of the button.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Then push the needle upward through a hole of the button.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Again push it into another hole of the button from its top to bottom and fix it in the cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">In this way stitch can be made across on the opposite hole above the needle or diagonally.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">In this way each hole should be covered with at least two stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">When the stitch is complete the thread should be pulled down below the cloth and finish with a knot.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">So that the button stitches are not opened.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">There are four holes on each press button.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Press button should be placed on the particular place of the dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Then make a knot at the thread end and push the needle through a hole on the clothes from below.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Make it round again before it is pushed through another hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The above process should be repeated again and again till all the holes of the buttons are covered with stitches.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Care should be taken to match the colour of the thread with the colour of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Generally two holes are made on a hook.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Place the hook on the selected spot on the dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Put a knot on the thread end.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Push the needle through a hole of the hook from below, pull the thread and fix it with the side cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Repeat this process of stitching thrice or four times in each hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">At final stage the thread should be fixed with cloth by a knot and cut off.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">One stitch will be needed at the curved end of the hook.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">When children wear baby frocks with frill they look nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">They are comfortable with loose baby frocks.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">If you want to make any kind of frock, first you have to prepare a drawing on a sheet of paper.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Then choose and select a design.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">According to design you have to make a dress.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">For baby frock the following measurements are required.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Follow drafting of baby frock.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Start cutting back part from G that is the shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">HI is below upper arm pit.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">IJK is lower part and KFC is the back portion which is to be cut.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">On the back part either full of half portion to be opened for fixing buttons.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Front part GH for throat HI for shoulder, IMJK lower armpit, KFC front part chest portion to be cut.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">For cutting sleeves start from E along with the curve to G then back to F. Also cut HE and IF.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">For stitching keep 1.2 cm more cloth at boarder places and 0.6 cm more cloth at wider curved places.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">First do the stitching of shoulder.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Then with upper part of chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Join the lower round about part of frock.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Make frills on one side of the round lower part.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Join it with the upper part.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Stitch two sides of sleeves.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Take measurement of sleeves fold it accordingly, attach piping and do the stitching from inside (the lower part of sleeve).</sent>
				<sent id ="247">The upper side of sleeve, before joining shoulders, make folds if there is excess of cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Attach the sleeves with shoulder by loose stitches first.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Then do the stitching either by hand or machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Then do the neck, lower border, button etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">When stitching is complete, iron it.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">These will increase the beauty of dress and make it attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">Children use panty, girls use it more.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">The upper side of panty is folded and fixed with elastic on waist.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">It's lower end is also folded.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">It remains above the knee.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Pant is generally made of long cloth, coloured poplin, khaddar, and check clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">On white or plain table cloth, bed sheet, screen etc. embroidery work can be done with multi coloured threads, it looks nice.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">When the room is decorated with such embroidered things, it become very attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Suitable design of embroidery for a table clothe is given below.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">During winter generally woollen sweaters are used .In this season girls are see nitting sweater, cap and sock with wool and stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Among the sewing works woollen work is one of the easiest one.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">It does not affect one's eye sight.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">For knitting wool a pair of needle with suitable collection of wool is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">So that we can make our necessary things in our spare time with least expense.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The process of knitting sweater for six years old boy is described below.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Back rounds should be kept in another sock stick.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">The knitting of these three needle should be reeve at every step, begin with closing one round.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">In this way complete the work and close it.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Thus the shape of the neck will be beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">For sleeve border, start from the arm pit part.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Take one round from the same side and one from the opposite side.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">In the way complete the reeving so that both the sleeves look alike.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">For this equal number of rounds should be made in two hands and reeve the border.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">At best two sides should be joined with the needle; sleeve less sweater can be knitted with various designs.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Cap making with a crochet hook.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
