<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-homeEco-6</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.897</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">179</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2304</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">762</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t171">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">A family is an institution where we live together with our parents, brothers and sisters, grandfather and grandmother, uncle and aunt.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">A family is formed and family life starts with marriage.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">At first a family remains small and with the birth of children, it extends.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Again, when the sons and daughters start their own family life, it contracts.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">A family life advances in stages and ends with death.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">There are different activities in every step of family life, which family members perform.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Every member of a family can take part in different activities if there is proper management in the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Though the members of the family are separate individuals with their thought, interest and ability, they have a common goal.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">To form an ideal family is the target and goal of the members as a whole.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">For this reason there should be mutual love and affection among the members.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">When members share joys and sorrows of other members, everybody can enjoy peaceful life.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">This is the symbol of healthy family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">A family becomes happy and prosperous with the establishment of sons and daughters.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The members of a family can understand each other through different activities and thus socialisation takes place among them.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">In this way the social periphery expands.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Every member has a role in performing family activities successfully.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">By performing particular duty, a member brings prosperity to the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">A family is a centre for learning.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The elementary education of children starts in a family.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The children receive moral, religious and formal education at the guidance of the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">To understand each other, to learn moral lesson and above all to wish the welfare of the family, children gain knowledge from the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">An educated family is conscious about solving family problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">There are many kinds of families in Bangladesh.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Though characteristics and activities of each family are almost same, they differ in practicing custom and culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Their life styles are also different.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">It is easy for one to adjust with other families if he has the knowledge of this family life.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">If the children can know about themselves, they will be able to know others also.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">They will be respectful to the tradition of other families and will develop a kind of cooperation.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">They will express sympathy towards others, develop friendship, avoid competitive mentality and earn other human qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Besides there are upper class, middle class, lower class families.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Difference in customs, manners and values is seen in every family.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Physical activities are the most important among other fundamental activities in a family.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The first responsibility of a family is to socialise the children and the second one is to save its culture and tradition.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Families differ in various cultural backgrounds.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">The role played by primitive society is not found in modern society.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The role of a family changes with the change of time and place.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Activities of a family are changing with the changing society.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Though a family is considered a fundamental institution in every stage of human society and in every age, its manners and customs are not same.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">In town area, rich, poor and middle class family live separately.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Social custom, institution, tradition, belief, outlook life style are different in different families.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">All types of families -rich or poor-live in the same area.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">There is a difference between the culture of town life and village life.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">There are differences of not only of profession and population but also life style between village and town.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Those who live in town develop taste, scientific outlook, values free from superstition.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">But differences of manner, attitude, outlook and values are found in village people.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">With the increasing urbanisation, development of communication and transportation, the gap between towns and villages is decreasing.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">The range of social relationship in town is wider than village.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">In every society marriage ceremony is considered as a social function.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Types of marriage ceremony are different in different families.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Education system is not same in every family.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Education is given more importance in middle class family than upper class and lower class family.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Education has peaceful influence on the family.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Social relationship among town people is not as hearty as that of village people.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Town people are more rational and self centred than village people.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">There is less scope of love, affection kindness, sympathy in town life.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Here people do not believe in traditional manner and custom.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">In town different types of social problems such as committing guilt, breach of marriage and prostitution are more.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Ethical standard of towns and villages can not be the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">There is no place of traditional values in town.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Here individuality, freedom, and comfort of every member of a family are given importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">As people of different religions live in the same area, their religious manners and customs are also different.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">To live in a society, we should have idea of other families along with ours.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">There are differences among the members of a family for their individuality.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Similarly there are differences among the families for different religions, values, standards and life styles.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">A family depends on other families for various reasons.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It is their social duty of all to adjusted with their neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Those who live around our houses play the roles of neighbours.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">The question of adjustment comes for the different characteristics of the families.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">A man has to depend on other members of family or society from the childhood to the last day of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">For this dependence, one has to exchange views with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Small children play with other children together, go to school together.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">For this reason they have to know life the style of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">To make life meaningful, one has to mix with other families.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">For this reason he/she has to know the way of life leading system of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">To know the life style of other families, the following aspects are to be given importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">To make relationship with other families.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">To take part in social activities of other families.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">To maintain mutual give and take policy.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">To exchange views with other families.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">To show respect to the culture and tradition of different families.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">To exercise human qualities-respect, affection, politeness, good manner etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">To have cooperation and sympathy.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">To be friendly and to shun competitiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The elderly people have much contribution to the younger for acquiring these qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">To adjust with the members of different families some points should be kept in mind carefully.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The points are discussed below.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">When a child is two years and a half, he/she is eager to know himself/herself.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">To know his/her own self the child ask himself or herself, Who am I? What am I? How did I become like this?</sent>
				<sent id ="89">He wants to know the logical answers of these questions.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">From this, he starts forming idea of himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">He can see himself in the mirror and can learn from others about his/her physical appearance- how he looks like?</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In this way he/she gains the knowledge of his/her own intelligence, emotion, will, values and ideas.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Parents, friends, teachers, neighbours, elders in the family, brothers and sisters help children to know all these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">If the children are praised in the school, they think themselves meritorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Again if they are rebuked, they think themselves foolish.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Similarly in the sports field, they can learn to evaluate themselves through their success and failure.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">It is very important for the children to know themselves properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">To make friendship one needs to have persons of similar nature or personality.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">If one can analyse his own personality, he can evaluate other's personality also.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">The opportunity to know all these qualities comes from friendship and mutual understanding.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">It is necessary to analyse personality to know oneself and others.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Personality is such a quality, which comprises manner, behaviour, way of expression, mentality etc of a person.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">If we analyses the characters of persons we find two kinds of personalities.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Introvert: Introvert persons are shy in nature, they do not want to express themselves before others.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">They cannot mix with others easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Extrovert: Extrovert persons always want to express themselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">They can easily mix with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">They are brave in nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Every family grows up according to its background and family lineage.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">For this reasons, family tradition influences ideals, will, rules, values, status of a family.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">To uphold the tradition of a family, all should cooperate to run all activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">One should not criticise or underestimate the religious activities of other families, rather he/she should show respect towards it.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">This is called adjustment with other families.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">In conjugal life, husband and wife live together coming from different families.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Here both have to accept life style of each other's family and adjust themselves with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">For this, they need qualities like patience, tolerance,intelligence, cooperation etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Though a husband and a wife have the closest relation, sometimes they contradict each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">If they have proper understanding, they can avoid quarrel and build up a happy family.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">There are many extended families where the house wife has to show too much respect to the members of her father-in-law's house.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Of course house wife must show respect and love towards elderly persons and other in-laws.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">At the same time, the members of the father-in-law's house should value her personality and should co- operate her to adjust with new environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">They should be respectful to her family tradition and culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">At this they can establish a congenial atmosphere and the bride can easily adjust herself with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">The members of a family grow tendency to exercise art, literature, science, religion according to family tradition.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">They engage themselves with singing, drawing, reading and other creative activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">No one should discourage the family members to pursue this kind of hobby, rather they should encourage them.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Thus one can show respect to the family tradition.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">To perform any activity in an easy and disciplined way, one needs cooperation.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">There are many activities in family, which are difficult and tiresome for one person.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">So, mutual help and co-operation are necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Boys and girls can help their parents by working inside and outside of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">By doing this, they can flourish their qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Cooperation is the base of power in a family.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">From childhood they grow up together and learn how to cooperate each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The basic principle of cooperation is to help in the moment of crisis to sympathise in sorrow and not to hurt weak point.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">To adjust with others following social rules and custom, one should need to sacrifice his own interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Cooperation is a social quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">To acquire this quality, the most important place for the children is the sports field.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The children learn give and take, kindness and sympathy while they play in a group.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">When they become adult, they can express that attitude and can adjust properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">To adjust with others by following social rules, we have to be sympathetic to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">We should feel other's need and help accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">If we do not have proper sincerity, we cannot be sympathetic to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">We can develop good relationship with our relatives, friends and neighbours if we feel their needs.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">We should be ready to help each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">When we extend our hands towards the people who are in trouble, they feel encouraged and can make plan for future activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">If we help the members of other families as well as the neighbours for mutual development, then both family and society develop.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Besides, we get chance to understand other families.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">As a result, maintaining inter-family relationship is possible.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">We need social qualities to adjust ourselves with the members of different families in social environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Social qualities include showing pity to others, solving problems with patience, having friendly attitude, politeness etc. Kindness is a great virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Kind people are popular in both family and in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The children possessing these qualities can adjust with others easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">The man who is polite and patient listen to what others say, their sorrows, sufferings and try to solve those problems.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Even he/she tries to help others at the cost of his own interest.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">To establish peace and tranquillity we should have patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Human qualities like politeness and gentility, improves personality.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">It is easy to win others if we express politeness and gentility in our behaviour.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">For these qualities we shall be respectful to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The children gain these qualities from other members of a family.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">These qualities socialise them and help them to adjust with others.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">To develop mutual relation, competitive mentality should be avoided.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Competition creates enemy.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">There is no way to compromise.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">This mentality makes man aloof.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">At that situation one does not hesitate to harm others.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">If there is competitive mentality, there will be a gap among the members or families.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Through understanding one can know each other, as the meaning ofunderstanding is give and take policy.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">There are different types of families for different socio economic condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">That is why a man belongs to upper class or middle class or lower class family.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">If a family wants to know about another family, it must come down to the stage of that family.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">We should be friendly to mix with other members of a family or locality.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">One cannot make friendship being self-centred.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">If a family wants to get along with other families, it must welcome others and create congenial atmosphere.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">For the development of a family, competition can be accepted but it must be constructive.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Members should not be envious to each other.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">It is the sign of social maturity of a person, if he can adjust himself with any environment and situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">If every person tries to solve the problem with his acquired qualities and education, he can adapt with new situation.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He must realise the differences among the families and he must respect it to get along with others.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
