<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-homeEco-14</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.712</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">196</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2364</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">741</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t163">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Dress and garments become dirty after use.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">So it is necessary to wash them.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Some time it is washed by laundry man.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">If dress and garments are washed in laundry these get torn off, damaged and discoloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">This is also a wastage of money.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">If there is an arrangement of washing, drying and ironing of clothes at home it is easy to be always neat and clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Usually clothes are washed at bath rooms.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">There should be sufficient light at the place of washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Light is needed for noticing the colour, stain and dirt of the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">If there is an arrangement of washing equipment it is easy to wash, clothes get cleaner too.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">If the equipments are kept near to washing place it will be available for washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Sufficient water is needed for washing clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">For this sufficient supply of water in the sink from a tap is needed at the place of washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Sufficient water is needed to remove the detergent and dirt from the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">A sink or basin is made of porcelain connected with a draining pipe under it.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">There is a tap fixed on the sink.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Sink is suitable for washing clothes in standing position.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">There is a small knob connected by a chain to hold water in the basin.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">After washing clothes the hole is opened to pass water.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">A bucket is necessary for using soap, soda, indigo, and starch.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Buckets are made of aluminium, plastic or tin.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Plastic buckets are convenient because it is light in weight and easy to clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">It is easy for rubbing and washing clothes in a bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">A bowl can be made of plastic, wood, clay or aluminium.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">The washer man usually use earthen bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Because soap and soda do not do any harm to earthen bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">There may be a stain from the wooden bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">For washing of woollen or silk clothes and to put indigo and starch the plastic bowl is the best.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">To put water on the washing clothes a mug is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Indigo has to be made soluble in little water in a mug then mixed in more water.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Mug can be made of tin plastic, aluminium or enamel.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Stick or Spoon : For shaking the boiling clothes a stick or spoon is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">To prepare starch a stick is also necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">This stick can be made of wood or bamboo, so that it is not melted by heat and these easy to hold.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Saucepan :To boil too much dirty cotton clothes, thick and heavy clothes, kantha for babies and towels a saucepan or a pan is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">It is made of aluminium, iron or clay.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It is necessary to boil the clothes and make it germ free.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">A saucepan is necessary for preparation of gruel.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Wooden board : A plain hard surface is required for washing dirty, thick heavy, cotton and linen clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Clothes are casily torn off if clothes are washed with heavy pressure in the surface of the bath room.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">A flat board is required to beat clothes for washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Clothes are soaked in soap-water or boiled with soda and then beaten to make them clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">This washing board can be made of wood or bamboo.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">If the board is made of bamboo, the piece of bamboo should be smooth or the clothes may tear off.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">Washing machine: Washing machine is available in market.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">Clothes can be washed and dried by washing machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">There are of two types of washing machine- automatic and semi automatic.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Washing machine is run by electricity.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">The problem of using washing machine is that it decreases the durability of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The button of shirts, zipper of pants are lost or broken.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">More water and soap are needed for washing clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">The fibre of flannel and woollen clothes is damaged.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Brush:- Plastic brush is used to remove dirt from cuff of shirt, collar, sleeve of blouse by rubbing.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">But brush should not be used to rub fine and thin clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">It may tear or damage the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Vacuum cone:- To reduce labour now days different type of machines have been invented for washing clothes, vacuum cone is one of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Soap water is put into dirty clothes and then this machine cleans the dirt from the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Suction washer: - All types of clothes are washed by this machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">No damage of clothes is done by this machine.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Suction machine is more or less like a pipe.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">It has two parts, one looks like a long hand and the other looks like a round bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Round bowl is fixed on the head of handle.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">At first clothes are soaked in soap water then the handle of the suction machine is press up and down to do the washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Drying equipment: - After washing drying arrangement should be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">If the clothes are not spread properly it takes time to dry up and iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Rack: - Rack for drying clothes are made of wood, iron and plastic.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">On each racks there are 3 to 4 long iron strings lined on both ends.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">There are gaps between to strings; clothes are spread on their strings.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">Racks are placed on the one side of the veranda .Small clothes are dried on the rack.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Wood or plastic clips are used in the wire and rope.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Otherwise the clothes may fall down and become dirty.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Clip keeps the clothes with the wire or rope.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">The upper side of the blouse, trouser should be clipped and lower side of the shirt.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Wire and rope should be smooth.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Hanger: - Shirt, coat should be dried on hanger.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The shape and size of the dress remain perfect if it is dried on hanger.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Hanger is made of wood, plastic and wire, the problem of wire hanger is that rust can spoil it and make stain the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">The woollen clothes should not be dried on hanger.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">It may change the shape and size of the woollen clothes will not be changed.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Clip: - The clip helps the clothes to be fixed with the wire and rope.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Clip is made of wood or plastic.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Dryer: - In the western country sunlight is rare.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Moreover hand houses are made in a way that clothes can be dried in the room in gas or electric dryer.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">In the dryer clothes are dried with in a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">B) Equipment for ironing: - After drying properly to give a perfect shape to the clothes ironing is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">There are some folds on the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">To remove these folds ironing is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Ironed clothes look more clean and bright.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Iron made of iron sheet - An ordinary iron is made of thick wired iron plate.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">There is a handle on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">This iron is placed on a gas or kerosene burner to get hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">It takes time for ironing.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Due to carelessness, it may burn the clothes as there is no heat regulating system.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">It may make the clothes dirty by black spot too.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">A piece of heavy cloth is used for the handle as it gets too hot.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Coal iron: - Coal iron is a small box with a cover.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Burning coals are put into it.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">The iron becomes heated with these hot coals.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">As there is no system of controlling heat there may be a possibility of staining or burning of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">We should be very careful while ironing.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Other wise burning coal may come out through loose cover and cause accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Electric iron: - Ironing with an electric iron is very easy.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Because it does not need to be heated on the burner.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Many clothes can be ironed within a short time.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">It has heat-controlling system.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">So the clothes of any kind can be ironed with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Iron made of iron sheet a place on the right side of the iron board to keep the iron.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">The other part of the iron board is covered with a blanket or a piece of heavy clothe.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Sleeve board: - To iron the long sleeve of the dress there are sleeve boards.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">It is easy to iron the sleeve on sleeve board.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Sprayer: - You need to spray water on clothes for ironing.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Sprayer is also used for spraying water.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Sprayer is a bottle made of plastic.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Water and starch liquid are spread uniformly on clothes by sprayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">So that the hands remain dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Some iron has a system of keeping water in it and water is sprayed on clothes according to need.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Besides washing equipments there needs some washing materials for washing clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The proper use of these materials makes the clothes clean and bright.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Water: - Water is needed for washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Pond, river, tap and rain water is used for washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">According to presence of minerals there are two types of watersoft water and hard water.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Soft water is suitable for washing clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">It needs less amount of soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">It creates more foam with little amount of soap and clothes are clean easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">In hard water you can not make foam even with a good soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Tube well water has more minerals and it can not make foam of soap easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">It is difficult to wash clothes and more soap is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">The hardness of water can be reduced by boiling the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Ironing board: - An iron board or separate table for ironing is needed.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">The iron board should be light up to waist line.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">If it is low in height it needs ironing by banding the body and cause that pain may waist and back bone.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Then it is not possible to iron for a long time.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Soap- Soap is an important washing material.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">A good soap is needed for cleaning clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">It need low labour and keep the fibre intact.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Good quality soaps are those soap which do not have alkali and made from good quality fat and oil.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Good quality soap easily creates foam.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">Laundry soap has some qualities such as- The soap will not looks yellow or deep coloured.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">It is clear or slightly faded in colour.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">This kind of soap is the best soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">(B) If pressed by finger it remains hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">It dose not soften to make a hole.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">(C) Take correct weight of a piece of soap; record it.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Do not use this soap for a month.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">After a month again weight it.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">If the weight decreases 1/5th of its total weight, it is a low quality soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">(D) If white powder like elements are found on the soap this indicates that the soap contains more alkali and is harmful for clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Detergent- Detergent is free from alkali material.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The cleaning capacity of detergent is very high.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Silk and woollen clothes can be washed with detergent easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">It does not discolour the cloth.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">If liquid shampoo is used for washing silk it makes the clothes clean and bright.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Soda - A soil called saji mati ashes from banana trunk are used as soda in the village.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">It contains soda and makes the clothes clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Soda salt is made of the chemical reaction of carbonic oxide and ammonia gas.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">The liquid solution of soda is alkali.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">So that silk and woollen clothes can not be washed with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Alkali material makes these clothes weak.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Oily and white cotton clothes can be cleaned with soda by boiling in hot water.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Katha of baby, diaper, and pillow case and bed sheet can washed with soda and boiling water to make it germ free.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Soap flakes: - Varieties of soap are now available in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">They are carefully manufactured for this purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">It is easy to use and safe for washing fine clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">A small quantity of soap flake gives sufficient foam.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">With a slight rubbing silk, wool, nylon etc can be cleaned with this soap.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Ritha :- Ritha is a kind of fruit.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">In our country ritha is used for cleaning the silk and wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">From ancient time expensive and fine clothes are washed with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">It maintains the exact use of colour of the clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">There is an element called saponin in ritha.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Saponin makes the clothes clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">The bark of the ritha fruit is separated from the seeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Then the seeds are kept into hot water for a night.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The next morning it creates foam after rubbing.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">At first bark has to be separated from foam water and then the clothes should be soaked in that water.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Then washing with water will make clothes clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">If woollen clothes are washed with ritha, it does not make the cloth shrink and hard and less durable.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Whitener: - Whitener is a chemical product, usually used for white clothe to make it brighter.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Required amount of whitener is mixed with water then the washed clothes are soaked in that water for some hour and then rinsed.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The washed clothes look brighter due to sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Indigo: - After washing with soda or soap white clothes become yellowish.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">To remove this yellowish indigo or neel is used.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">It is available in liquid, powder and solid form.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Powder or solid indigo is tied in a small piece of fine clothes and then dipped in water of a bucket or bowl.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">When the water is light blue then the washed clothes are put in that water and stirred up thoroughly.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Now ring it to spread in sunlight.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Starch or gruel: - The starch is used in thin cotton clothes to give it a good shape after ironing.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">These are available from fluid of boiled rice; the starch can be made by flour, barley and araroot powder.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">These powders are mixed proportionately with water and then boiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">Washed clothes are then put into that starch solution.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The quantity of the starch depends on the quality of clothes.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Fine cotton cloths need more quantity of starch to make it stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Starchy cloths must be ironed to get its proper shape.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">These clothes can be used for many days because dirt can not get into starchy clothes easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Gum arabic: - It is used for silk fabric to make it stronger.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Gum arabic is put into some amount of water and then rubbed to dilute and then it can be applied to the clothes.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
