<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-homeEco-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:02.612</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">225</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3115</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">903</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t158">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The Principles of Making Home Attractive, Comfortable and Peaceful Home or habitation is one of the fundamental needs of a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The role of home environment is essential for physical, mental and social development of an individual.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">For survival we need home, similarly for easy and comfortable living we need beautiful, attractive and peaceful home environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">To make the environment in our house attractive and comfortable, we have to pay attention to the interior decoration and arrangement of furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Therefore, we should have the idea of selecting furniture and other household equipments for decoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">We must maintain the following rules of art in furnishing different rooms such as living room, bed room, reading room, kitchen and store room.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">The combination of different articles is called unity.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The arrangement of furniture and other household articles should give a look of totality.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Unity can be brought through the similarity of design and arrangement of the furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Beauty can not be created unless there is a balance in arrangement.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">There are two kinds of balance direct balance (ii) indirect balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Direct balance can be made through keeping two similar designed sofa set in either side of a central point.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">To create indirect balance, different articles are set in a way that in spite of their difference in size, they look similar.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">The room should be balanced through the grouping of the furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">When necessary, mixed arrangement of large and small furniture can be made to create balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Large furniture in a large room and small furniture in a small room are more befitting.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Furniture of one side should be balanced with that of other side, furniture kept in the centre and in the corner should also be balanced.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Not keeping in a scattered way, we should keep them in a well organised way to bring beauty in the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Proportion is the relation of one thing to another in quantity, size etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">It may be the relation of a part to the whole or a part to a part.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Beauty depends on proportion.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">If things are not proportionate, they look odd.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">So furniture should be in proportion to the size of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">A room with excess furniture loses its beauty.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Similarly a small bed cover on a large bed or a large bed cover on a small bed is odd looking.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Again things are not proportionate if we set large bed in a small room and small bed in a big room.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Motion and repetition are the main characteristics of rhythm.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">We can see the rhythm in the folding of the curtains.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">By combining size, design, line and colour of the furniture of a room, we can create a sense of rhythm.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Thus we can avoid boredom and monotony of the room decoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Flower arrangement, decorative furniture, hand-made design, wallpaper, and paintings may draw the attention of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Furniture should be arranged in accordance with the taste of family members and the convenience to household activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">We should be careful that it does not create problem in the movement in the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Furniture should be kept in a way so that it can be used properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Proper arrangement of furniture reduces unnecessary movement in the house and helps to save time and energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">For the convenience of opening and closing the door, no furniture should be placed against doors and windows.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Heavy furniture should be placed parallel to the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Small furniture can be set horizontally in the corner.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Table, chair, sofa, bed etc should be placed away from the wall so that it becomes easier to clean the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">If there is any defect in the room of a house, it can be covered by furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">For an example defective wall, floor and discoloured part of the room can be hidden by carpet or other furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Principles of furniture arrangement in living room, bed room, reading room, kitchen and store room.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">To enhance the beauty of a thing, the use of different articles or accessories is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Home decoration means arranging and placing the furniture and other things in a planned way.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">It makes the environment more comfortable and attractive.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">For home decoration, we need proper furniture and various articles in ccordance with the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">We can get mental satisfaction by placing them and decorating them in a proper way.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">For the arrangement of the furniture we must consider the functional aspect of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Furniture of a room should serve the purpose of that particular room.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Arrangement in the living room should be made for social activities - gossiping, entertaining guest, watching television etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">In the bed room people like to get comfort, rest and privacy.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Living room is the centre place for socialising and family gathering.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Guests are entertained here.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">For passing time in light amusement the room is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">For this reason, we should ensure taste and comfort in selecting and arranging furniture for this room.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">The living room should be furnished with proportionate chair attached with cushion or cane sofa and table.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">It is not necessary that the chairs are of same size but they should be similar in design.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">Chairs in the living room should not be kept in a scattered way rather it should be in an orderly fashion.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The big sofa should be kept against the big wall and opposite to the window.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Centre table should be placed in front of it and side table can be kept in between two sofas .</sent>
				<sent id ="61">The centre table and side table should be within the reach.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Ash tray can be kept on the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Chair should be placed at a little distance from the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In the living room television and radio can be kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Television should be placed parallel to the viewers eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">If it is kept too high or too low, it creates problem to the viewers.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">The aquarium of coloured fishes may be placed at one side of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Tired people come back home after a whole day's work.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">They need rest.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">The room which removes monotony and tiredness from their body and mind is the bed room.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">To make the environment of the bed room attractive and comfortable suitable furniture should be selected and placed accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">In the bed room excess furniture should not be kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">Bed, dressing table, wardrobe, chest of drawers, small table and chair for study and if possible, an easy chair can be kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Furniture should be arranged in a way so that it does not hinder proper ventilation and free movement.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Bed is the main furniture in the bed room.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">The big bed should be placed against big wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">But it should not be too close too the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">There should be a space between the wall and bed so that it makes dusting and making the bed easier.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">By placing a small table, we can keep books, ash tray, table lamp and telephone etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">By the side of the window, study table can be kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Dressing table can be placed by the side of the window where there is ample light.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Clothing of everyday use should be kept in chest of drawers or in closet.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Seasonal or formal dress can be kept in an almirah.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Separate room can be used in a house for the study of the children.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The room should be calm and quiet so that no sound from outside can disturb them.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">Study table, chair and book shelf can be kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Table should be placed in a way so that one can get sufficient light for study.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">If possible, one table lamp can be kept on the table.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">If there is not separate room, dining room can be used as reading room and dining table can be used as study table.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">The housewives in our country spend most of their time in the kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">For this reason, kitchen should be nearer to bed room and dining space so that they can move easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In this way we can save time and energy.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The kitchen should be attractive and comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">(ii) Cooking by standing: Stoves or chulas are kept on a table or a platform up to the height of the waist.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Main works in a kitchen are the preparation for cooking that includes cutting, chopping, cooking, serving and washing.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Kitchenwares are to be arranged as they are needed for working.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Kitchen space can be divided in to four areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">These are working space, washing space, cooking space and the space for storage.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">For doing different works, one particular space should be selected.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Working space should be used for things bought from the market and for cutting vegetables, fish and meat.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">If possible the refrigerator should be kept nearby to keep green vegetables, fish and meat easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">There should be good arrangement for keeping grinder, blender etc in the kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Washing space should be near the place of cooking and preparing food.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">For doing work in standing position, a sink or a basin is suitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Glasses, cups, plates and bowls can easily be washed in the basin.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">A separate tap can be placed under the basin for the cleaning and washing of kitchen wares.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Soap in the soap case, dust clothes, brush should be kept nearer to the basin or sink.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Other materials for cleaning kitchen should be kept near the washing space.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Cooking space should be at one side of the kitchen nearer to the window.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">So that smoke can easily go out and there is sufficient air and light.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Stove or chulla should be placed accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The way one cooks, whether by standing or sitting, she/he has to take rest at an interval.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The containers for spices should be labelled and kept on the shelves near the stoves or chullas.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">For keeping plates and other utensils, shelves, racks or stand can be kept.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Knives, spoons, cutters and other accessories should also be kept within reach.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Wall rack is very useful for keeping kitchen wares in order.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Kitchen utensils should be kept at the height of the family members.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Light utensils should be kept on the upper and heavy utensils should be kept on the lower shelves.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">A table can be kept for keeping plates and glasses near to the basin.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">For keeping cooked food, a meat-safe can be used to protect the food from flies and insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">A table can be kept in the kitchen for arranging food to serve.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Store room should be beside the kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">There should be a door between the store room and the kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Glass windows are suitable as light can pass through it.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">As this room often remains closed, it should be well ventilated.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Racks or shelves in the wall are very convenient for keeping necessary things.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">The kitchen wares which are not always used may be kept on the upper shelves.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Rice, pulse, flour of every month should be kept in the tins which can be placed on the shelves.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Potatoes, onion, garlic and other species should be kept in a plastic rack.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">It should be checked now and then whether these items are spoiled by insects or not.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Like other rooms, the store room should be neat and tidy.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The use of curtains, carpet, wall hanging, flowers, plants, light etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Furniture is the main item for the room decoration.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">These should be arranged according to the need of every room.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">If we arrange all these things according to our need and taste, life will be more easy and comfortable.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Curtains of doors and windows play a vital role in the decoration of a house.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Curtains not only enhance the beauty of a house but also maintain privacy.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">They protect the room from outer dust, sunshine and wind.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The appropriate colour selection of the curtains increases the beauty of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">At the time of selecting curtains, we should consider the length and width of the doors and windows.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Colour should be selected according to the colour of the wall, ceiling and furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Light coloured curtains, make the room look larger and soothing to the eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">We generally use small and big curtains.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Big curtains cover doors and windows from top to the floors.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Small curtains are generally used for the windows.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">Curtains may be made of single piece or double pieces in a door or a window.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Curtains are of two kinds, light and heavy in texture.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Light curtains of cotton or synthetic fibre are easily washable.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">The curtains of light colour and texture are comfortable in the summer.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Wind can pass easily from one room to another.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">But the room in which excess sunlight enters should have curtains of light colour and of heavy texture.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">The use of carpet enhances the beauty of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">In our country carpets are used mostly in the living room.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Carpet can be used in front of the dressing table and television beside the bed in the bed room.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Small plastic mats can be used under the dinning table.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Mats can be easily washed.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">If carpet is used in all the rooms, it may increase the temperature of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">As it is heavy in texture, it is rarely washed.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">Carpet is easily filled with dust.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">To remove this dust, keep it in the sun upside down and hit it with a piece of wood.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">The carpet can be cleaned with a brush or a vacuum cleaner.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">A room can be made charming and attractive by hanging pictures on the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Pictures for wall should be selected in accordance with the size and shape of the wall and the use of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">They should also be in harmony with the furniture.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">The shape and size of the pictures should match the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Large pictures should be hung on the large wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">The frames of the pictures, which are thin and less decorated are suitable for the small wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Pictures should be hung on the height of eye level so that they can be seen with case.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">While hanging pictures on the wall we must keep in mind that the pictures have been properly fixed and no strings can be seen.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Pictures should be hung on the wall having sufficient light.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Pictures should be related to the use of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">For an example, attractive natural scenery in the living room, family pictures in the bed room, pictures of vegetable and fruits in the kitchen.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Photographs of the poets, writers and philosophers in the children room and reading room will make them interested to know them.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">Children can learn the names of different birds and flowers if their pictures are kept in the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Now a days, various kinds of wall hangings are found for the decoration of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Various pictures, handmade design on the mat are used in the living room.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Different artistic things made of wood, cane, bronze are found in the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">It proves the artistic sense of the housewives if they hang their hand stitched wall mats on the wall.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">We can not deny the use of flower and leaves in increasing the beauty of home environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">After the arrangement of flowers, if we put vases with flowers in our bed room, living room and dining space, it will attract everybody.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Flower arrangement in vase seems to bring the bounties of nature inside the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">For flower arrangement, some articles are necessary such as flowers, leaves, branches, vases, tops, scissors and pin holders.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Flowers should be arranged in harmony with the shape, size and colour of the vases.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Rojonee Gandha sticks are to be kept in large vases.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Rose, Ganda and other little flowers can be arranged in small vases of different shapes.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">It should be considered that the design and colour of the vases should not suppress the beauty of the flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Costly flowers are hardly needed for flower arrangement.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">We can arrange flowers in earthen pots or vases.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Besides many surplus glass containers can be used as vases.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">For flower arrangement and adjustment, pin holders can be bought from the market.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Besides flowers in the vases, we can decorate our houses with the tops of coloured plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">The beauty of the house can be intensified by the use of tops.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Specially, entrance of the living room and dining room can be decorated with money-plant, plants of coloured leaves and of spiral leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Tops used for decoration must be clean.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">The leaves of the plants of tubs should be dusted regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">We must take care so that there are no insects in the plants.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Tubs should be kept at the corner of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Flowers should be arranged according to the occasion place or the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Flower vases can be of different sizes such as long, round, flat in accordance with the size of branches, flowers and leaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Pin holders must be kept hidden with leaves and flowers.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Flower vases should be filled with water.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Flowers should be plucked with the knife or scissors before sun rise and after sun set.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Just after cutting, the stems should be dipped in the water.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Otherwise the plucked flowers will fade as soon as the stems dry up.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Sufficient light is necessary for healthy living.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Arrangement of good lighting makes the room more attractive, protects eye sight, enhances the freshness of mind and saves us from accident.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">We arrange proper lighting for removing darkness at night and for getting sufficient light at day time.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Arrangement of lighting should be made according to the condition of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Living room is a room for social gathering, discussion and gossip.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Sufficient light is necessary for this room.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Tube light provides sufficient light and at the same time adds to the beauty of the room.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">A table lamp can be kept in this room.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Sufficient light is also necessary for study.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Excess or insufficient light is harmful for eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">It damages eye sight very easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">For study a table lamp with shade can be useful.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">It should be kept in mind that the light should focus on the books rather than the eyes.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">No coloured shade should be used on the light in the reading room.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Light in the bed room should be soothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">If any body is in the habit of sleeping with light on, he should use light- blue or green coloured bulb.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">If one has the habit of reading books or news paper in the bed, he should keep a table lamp with a shade.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Kitchen is the working place for the women.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Sufficient light improves their ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">For security and convenience, appropriate lighting system should be made for portico, garages and covered or uncovered veranda.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">To save the bulbs from damage by storm or winds or to protect it from theft, they should be covered with net.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
