<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-islam-1</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.003</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">362</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">3777</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1228</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t175">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The word Aqaid is plural of Aqidah meaning articles of faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">In other words, to have faith in the fundamental articles of Islam is Aqaid.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">As for example : Tawhid, Risalat, Akhirat etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Tawhid means monotheism, to profess belief in one Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The main theme of Islam is the full conviction in Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">And the main subject matter of faith in Allah is the faith in Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">By Iman we declare LA ILAHA- ILLALLAH there is none to be worshipped except Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">By this declaration we accept all the rules and regulations of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">All the injunctions and teachings of Islam are based on the belief in Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Throughout ages, men have become derailed by going far away from the teachings of Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">They have enslaved themselves to innumerable creations of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Sometimes they bowed down their heads to the sun, the moon, the stars, the planets, considering them as the source of power .</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Sometimes they worshipped fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Sometimes they worshipped influential person considering him ,as the source of power.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Sometimes they bowed their heads down to some imaginary idol.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Again sometimes, losing balance, man has declared himself as the lord, worthy of being worshipped by other people.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">In order to safeguard mankind from these misguided ideologies and to free them from bondage of innumerable gods, Allah sent many prophets throughout ages.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">The Prophets have taught mankind Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">They had to suffer a lot in establishing Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">They had to struggle through out life.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">All Prophets, right from the first one, Hazrat Adam (As) down to the last Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) have preached Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">A believer in Tawhid does not bow his head down to any person, power or nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">This belief awakens self-consciousness and self respect in a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">It builds up unity among mankind getting rid off all differences.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">As a result liberal attitude is created among men.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Men become inspired for good deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">A believer in Tawhid is a peace- loving man as he is bestowed by Allah with power and courage.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">How beautiful our earth is!</sent>
				<sent id ="29">There is the vast sky over our heads.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">In it shine the sun, the moon, the stars and the planets.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Numerous milky ways and nebula are there.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">These are directed in a planned way since the beginning of the creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">There are no collisions or conflicts in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">There are rivers and canals, seas and oceans, hills and mountains.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">These are run in a regulated manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">There is no irregularity in the rotation of day and night and the position of stars and planets.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">This proves that there is an Almighty Creator and Controller of this vast universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Had there been more than one creator, there would have been no such discipline.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">In fact had there been more than one creator, there would have been disturbance, in the eternal discipline of the universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">It is natural that there would be chaos in a country if there were more than one ruler in that country.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Allah Almighty says, There is no god along with Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">(If there were many gods), each god would have taken away what he had created and some would have lorded it over others.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">(Muminun 23:91) This proves that there is only one creator for everything in this entire universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">He is Allah, the greatest.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">He is one, unique and incomparable, This belief is called Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We will believe in Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">We will acknowledge Allah Almighty as the Owner of all powers.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">We will worship Him alone; we shall be blessed with His grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Disbelief in the fundamental principles of Islam is Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Dictionary meaning of the word Kufr is to cover, to conceal, to be ungrateful, to disbelieve and to deny.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">In Islamic terminology, disbelief in and rejection of the existence of Allah is Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Rejection on any of the injunctions of Islam established with certainty by the Quran and Hadith is regarded as Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Anybody involved in Kufr is called Kafir .</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Kufr is opposed to Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Belie fin Allah and the Prophet makes it obligatory to follow their commands and to avoid their prohibitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">Disbelief in Allah's specific commands and prohibitions is also Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Salat, Sawm, Hajj, Zakat etc are Farz (binding, obligatory) in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">These are to be observed without fail.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">If anybody disbelieves them or prevents anybody from observing them, he will be treated as Kafir.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Similarly to consider any of the prohibited things like wine, gambling, interest, murder etc. as permissible is an act of Kufr.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">A kafir person is ungrateful to the merciful Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">A kafir denies His absolute authority and is a rebel to His discipline, rules and regulations.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Severe punishment is scheduled for a Kafir.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Meaning: And those who reject faith and belief our Signs, they shall be companions of fire they shall abide therein.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Shirk means partnership, In other words it means belief in more than one creator, controller and Ilah.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">To deem anybody to be a partner of Almighty Allah or to consider anyone to be His equal is called shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">To include anyone in worship of Allah is also regarded as shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">Allah may, if He is pleased, pardon any offence.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">But He will not pardon a man who commits shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Meaning: Allah does not forgive (the sin of ) joining other gods with Him; But He forgives whom He pleases other sins than this.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">Shirk was the worst sin committed in pre-Islamic days.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Therefore our beloved Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) spent thirteen years of prophetic life in getting rid of shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">He endeavored hard to imprint in the minds of men the faith in oneness of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Evil effects of Shirk Shirk is not only an unpardonable sin, it causes self-degradation to those who are soiled with shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Allah Almighty has created men for His worship.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">He has created all other things for their benefit.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Men have been endowed with such qualities that they can utilize all other creations for their benefit for controlling them.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">But the mushrik bows down his head to those creations.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">This is utter disgrace for humanity.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Division is created in society due to Shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Environment is polluted.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Peace and tranquility is lost.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Life of men becomes unbearable.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Shirk is an unpardonable sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">But Allah Almighty may, if He so wishes, forgive one who sincerely prays for His forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">We will keep ourselves aloof from Shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">We shall be blessed with the grace of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Our lives will be graceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Iman means faith, Mufassal means detailed.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Iman mufassal means detailed faith.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Articles of faith have been elaborately described in this kalima.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">In other words, it has been narrated in it what are the items in which Iman is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">Seven articles of faith have been stated in this Kalima.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">a. Entity and attributes of Allah are eternal and everlasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">He is ever existent.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">He is the First, He is the Last and He alone was there where there was nothing.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">He alone will be there when nothing will remain.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Allah alone is the creator the owner of the entire universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">He alone is the director of the entire universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">Allah Almighty directs the entire universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Every one lives and dies according to His directive.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">No one has any share in His power.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">He alone deserves to be worshipped and obeyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">No entity except Allah deserves worship of human being.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">He is eternal, immortal, omnipotent and incomparable.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">He is the only being to be worshipped.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">The Angels are created from Nur.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">They are invisible.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">They may assume any shape according to the command of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Nobody, except Allah, knows their exact number.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">They need no food or sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The remembrance of Allah is their life.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">They are ever ready to carry out the command of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Among the angels, four are especially famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Hazrat Jibriel (As) who communicated the message of Allah to the Prophets.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Hazrat Michael (As) who distributes the livelihood of the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Hazrat Ajrail (As) who takes away the soul of the living beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Hazrat Israfil (As) who is waiting with the trumpet for the command of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">On the command from Allah, he will blow the trumpet and the Day of Judgement will begin.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Besides, Angels are engaged in different activities according to the command of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">We should have faith in the Books of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Allah Almighty has sent throughout ages His books, to the Prophets for guidance of strayed mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Our divine guide Book, Al Quranul Karim, is the Best of the revealed Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">We should have-faith in the Books revealed to the earlier Prophets also.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Allah Almighty sent Prophets and Messengers throughout ages for the guidance of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">The first Prophet is Hazrat Adam (As) and the last Prophet is Hazrat Mohammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Besides, many other Prophets and Messengers came to the world.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">All of them preached the message of Tawhid.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">Some of the Messengers were sent to each and every community.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">We should have faith in all of them.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Everything has an end.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Death is inevitable after birth.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">So there is an end to the vast universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">One day, this beautiful earth will perish at the command of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">Living beings will he resurrected after death for judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">This is called Qiyamat- the day of judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Qiyamat certainly will occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">But nobody, except Allah, knows exactly when will it occur.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Belief in Qiyamat is a must.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Man's fate is in the hands of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Good and bad of fate take place according to the wishes of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">He determines good and bad on the basis of human activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Allah the Merciful certainly gives good result for good deeds and bad result for evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">We do not know what is there in our fate.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">We should endeavour for our good luck.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">It is not at all proper to sit idle depending on fate.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">After the ruin of the earth at the command of Allah, everybody will be given new birth to and will be brought together.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">This is called Hashr or resurrection.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Allah Almighty will bring everybody to account for all good and bad activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Those who perform good deeds in this world will be rewarded by Allah Almighty with Jannat (paradise).</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Jannat is an abode of eternal happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Those who will enter jannat will live there for eternity in abso1ute happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Those who indulge in bad activities will be sent to Jahannam (Hell).</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Jahannam is an abode of extreme sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Those who will enter Jahannam will be undergoing untold suffering for eternity.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Belief in each of the aforesaid seven items is a must.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Whoever does not believe in anyone of them, will be treated as a nonbeliever.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">He will have to face severe punishment hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">We shall have faith in all items of Iman Mufassal.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">We shall believe heart and soul.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">Allah will be pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Our life will be a success.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">We shall be rewarded with Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">Allah Almighty has created us.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">He has created the entire universe.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">He is the Cherisher and Sustainer of all creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">He is the most Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">He is Omnipotent.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He sees everything and hears everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">He is the source of all virtues.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">His qualities are incomparable to any other's qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">It is said in The Holy Quran.'</sent>
				<sent id ="173">As the existence of Allah is Eternal and Everlasting, similarly His attributes are Eternal and Everlasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He has many qualitative names, which are known as Asmaul Husna.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">Asma means names and Husna means the most beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">AI-Asmaul Husna means the most beautiful names.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Allah Almighty has introduced Himself to us through these names.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">He has expressed His attributes and has urged us to address Him by these names.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">He says The most beautiful names belong to Allah, so call on Him by them, but shun such men as use profanity in His names.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">e. those who attribute different names to Him.)</sent>
				<sent id ="181">They will soon be requited.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The influence of AI-Asmaul Husna on individual and society is boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">These are ideals for human life.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Human life should be based on these ideals.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">As for example, Allah is Merciful, He bestows Mercy on all.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">We shall be merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">We shall show kindness to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Allah is the Creator.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">We shall be creative.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">When grown up, we shall enrich the society and country through new discoveries and inventions.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">Allah is forgiving.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">We also shall learn to forgive.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Allah Grants livehood.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">We shall also give food to hungry people.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Allah Grants peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">We also shall give peace and security to the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Allah is Forbearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">We also shall be patient during dangers and difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">We shall pray to Allah for freedom from calamity.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Al-Asmaul Husna makes life of individual and society graceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Men in society become mutually sympathetic by emulating these attributes.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">One helps the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">One helps the helpless and orphan.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Men are Allah's best creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Allah desires that His attributes become reflected in human beings.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Men should emulate His attributes.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">It is for this reason that in Islam emphasis is given on emulating the attributes of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">It is reported Meaning : You emulate the qualities of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">There is no way for becoming nice of good character-man than emulating the attributes of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">With the knowledge of Allah's attributes, it becomes easy to follow His commands.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">It becomes possible to avoid misdeeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">We shall try to understand the significance of AI-Asmaul Husna.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">We shall earnestly try to lead our lives in the light of these names.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">The word Hayyun means The living.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Allahu Hayyun means Allah is Immortal and Ever-living.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">He faces no death.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">He has no decay.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Infirmity, disease, weariness, slumber or sleep do not touch Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">It is stated in the Holy Quran- Meaning: Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="220">There is no god but He, the living, the Self subsisting, Eternal, No slumber can seize Him nor sleep.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">He was there when there was no creature.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Again, He will still be there when all creatures will be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Allah Almighty says, All that! is on earth will perish except existence of thy Lord.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">He grants life to every living being.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Allah is Eternal and ever existing.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">We are His obedient servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">We shall remain vivacious, active.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">We shall he enterprising.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">We shall avoid lifelessness.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">We shall be attentive to our work.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">The word Qaiyyumun means eternal and everlasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Allahu Qayyumun means Allah is Eternal.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">He is the Director of everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">Everything in the sky and the earth is under His control.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">He controls the sun, the moon, the stars, the planets, light and air.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">The assemblage of stars in the sky takes place under His direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Roses emit sweet smell; bird's tumult, rivers flow, sun and moon shine (under His direction).</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Under His direction deserted wasteland turns into populated area, arid earth becomes animate, fountain springs out of desert.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">He is ever active, He is busy with new work everyday.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">We shall take leasson from His ever-continuing direction and activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">We shall avoid laziness and shall be more eager to discharge our duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">The word Azizun means exalted in might.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Allahu Azizun means Allah is exalted in might.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">His authority is boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">He can do whatever He wishes.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">None has any power to obstruct His work.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">No power can make Him incapable.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">No one can deceive or cheat Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">No one can hoodwink him.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">Everything is under His control.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">If He wants to punish a sinner, no one can prevent it.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">Allah Almighty says Meaning: Allah is Exalted in might, Lord of retribution.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">(Al-e-Imran 3:4) He completely destroyed the defiant and arrogant Ad and Thamud community.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">He utterly destroyed the vanity of false claimant of divine authority of the oppressor rulers Pharaoh and Nimrud.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">He caused their disgraceful death.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">He destroyed the community of Nooh (AS)(Noah) by formidable flood.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">He annihilated the elephant army of Abraha by small birds.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Thus He destroyed throughout ages many powerful oppressive communities.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Nobody could obstruct His punishment We shall realize the importance of Aziz attribute of Allah Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">We shall perform good deeds and shall avoid sinful acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">We shall escape Allah's punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The word Khabirun means to be well acquainted with.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Allahu Khabirun means Allah is well acquainted with everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Nothing is hidden from His knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Nothing is unknown to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">His knowledge is all pervading.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Allah knows even the falling of a leaf of a tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">i.e. the smallest particle is not unknown to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">He knows what is there in human mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">He knows secret intention, vice or virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Allah Almighty says Meaning: Verily Allah has full knowledge and is well acquainted (with all things).</sent>
				<sent id ="272">We shall understand the significance of Khabir attribute of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">We shall be always careful, do good deeds and refrain from evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">The word Saburun means most enduring.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Allahu Saburun means Allah is most enduring; there is no limit to His patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">He has bestowed many gifts on man.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">He has created varied things in order to make human life graceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">He made the earth as coach and the sky as roof for mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">He has engaged light, air, sun and moon in the service of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">But man forgets Allah due to ignorance.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">They disobey Allah and give up worship of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Even that Allah does not inflict immediate punishment.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">He remains patient.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">He gives them chance for return and penitence.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Had there been immediate punishment, there would have been no life in the earth.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Men would have perished due to their sins and other creatures would have perished due to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">We shall ponder over the significance of , Sa bur attribute of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">We shall have patience during crisis.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">We shall not take immediate revenge for misconduct of others.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">Allah will be pleased with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">We shall receive His grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Risalat means message, letter or carrying information.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">In Islamic termin- ology, to convey the holy message of Allah to mankind is called Risalat.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">Those who discharge this responsibility are called Nabi (Prophet) or Rasul (Messenger).</sent>
				<sent id ="295">They were sinless and compassionate for mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">Every Messenger is a Prophet, but every Prophet is not Messenger.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Prophets are many in number.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Prophets and Messengers are the connecting link between Allah and His servants.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">It is through them Allah Almighty sent His message to mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Prophets have shown the right path to the mankind through Books of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Allah Almighty says Meaning: We assuredly sent amongst every people an Apostle.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">(Nahl16:36) As it is Farz (obligatory) to have faith in Tawhid, similarly belief in Prophets is also obligatory.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Belief in every Prophet sent by Allah is a must; oherwise Iman will not be complete.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Most of the people who did not believe in the Prophets were destroyed by the wrath of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Wahi means secret word, hint, to send a secret message which remains secret to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">In the terminology of Shariah, a message sent by Allah revealed to a Prophet is called Wahi.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">Allah Almighty sometimes sent Wahi direct and some times through angel.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">Hazrat Musa (As) went to the mountain of Toor and spoke direct to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Our beloved Prophet (Sm) spoke to Allah during his Miraj.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">This is direct Wahi.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Hazrat Jibriel (As) used to come to the Prophets with Wahi.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">It means what is recited.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">The Glorious Quran is Wahi Matlu because it is recited in Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">Wahi Ghair Matlu.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">It means which is not recited.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">Hadith is called Wahi Ghair Matlu because it is not recited in Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">The importance of Wahi is boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Wahi is the message of Allah and Allah's message is the Source of all knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">We have got the Holy Quran and Hadith through Wahi.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">It is no less than Wahi sent to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">Every rule and regulation of Sahriah is from Wahi.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">It is through Wahi revealed to the Messenger of Allah that we learn about Allah, Akhirat (hereafter), Jannat and Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Nobody can be a Muslim without having faith in Wahi.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">Akhirat means hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">In the terminology of Shariah, life after death is called Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">Grave, Day of Judgement, Resurrection, Mizan, Sirat, Jannat and Jahannam- all are included in Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Life in this world is temporary.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">Life in Akhirat is permanent and everlasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Allah Almighty says- Meaning: This life of the present is nothing but (temporary) convenience; it is hereafter that is the home that will last.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">Belief in Akhirat is Farz (obligatory).</sent>
				<sent id ="331">Without belief in Akhirat, belief in Allah, Rasul and Kitab will not be acceptable.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Allah Almighty says : Meaning : They (believers in their hearts) have the strong belief of the hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">The consequences of every act in this world will have to be faced in Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">With this belief man cannot indulge in evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">He always performs good deeds in the hope for getting good reward.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">He will avoid evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">It is said- Meaning: This world is grainfield of hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">The consequences of the activities in this world will have to be faced in Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">No opportunity for Amal or activity will be there.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">For good deeds in this world, rewards will be multiplied.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Sirat means road.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">In the terminology of Shariah, it is a bridge, which will be put on Jahannam in the Day of Judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Sirat will be thinner than a hair and sharper than a sword.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Every man will have to cross this Sirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">First of all our beloved Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) will pass across this Sirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Kafir and Mushrik will fall in Jahannam at the time of crossing Sirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Some of the sinners among Muslims will also fall in Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">So me other less sinner Muslims will cross Sirat with great difficulty.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Belief in Sirat is obligatory.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">We learn the meaning and importance of Sirat from this lesson.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">We shall believe in Sirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">Mizan means balance, a measuring rod, scale, unit of measurement.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">In the terminology of Shariah, a measuring appliance by which Amal will be measured in the Day of Judgement is called Mizan.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">There will be two scale pan and a rod in the middle.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Every Arnal of mankind will be measured by it.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Allah Almighty says- Meaning : We shall set up scales of justice for the Day of judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">Human Arnal even if it is an iota will be brought in the Day of Judgement by Allah Almighty and will be measured in Mizan.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Sentences with praise to Allah Almighty will fill up the scale pan of virtue in the Day of Judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">The Messenger of Allah (Sm) says Alhamdulillah - all praises be to Allah is a sentence by which scale pan of virtue becomes full.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The Prophet (sm) further said, There are two sentences which are very dear to the Merciful Allah, easy to pronounce and heavy in the balance.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Meaning: Glory be to Allah with His praise.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">Glory be to Allah the Exalted.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
