<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-islam-2</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.038</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">390</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4598</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1285</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t176">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The dictionary meaning of the word Ibadat ( is servitude, worship slavery, allegiance etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">In technical terminology, Ibadat means obligatory rituals of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Allah says : Meaning : And I have only created jinns and men that they may serve me.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Iqamatun is an Arabic word.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">The meaning of the word is to straighten, to make permanent, to stabilize.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">In the terminology of Shariah, Iqamatus Salat means to perform Salat at fixed time fulfilling all its conditions and regulations.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Meaning: And establish regular Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Here Allah has not commanded only to read Salat, but has commanded to establish Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Allah Almighty further says : Meaning: Verily Salat is enjoined on believers at stated times.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Meaning: Salat is the key to Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">He further said: Meaning: The difference between a believer servant (Mumin) and a Kafir is giving up of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">The importance of Salat is boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">Salat is the best way for expressing allegiance and submission of a servant to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">A servant may reach maximum nearness to Allah through Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Man remains immune from sins if he properly establishes Salat five times a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Allah says, Certainly Salat restrains from shameful and unjust deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The Generous Prophet (Sm) said, The first thing to be taken account of in the Day of Judgement is Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">( Shariah has laid great emphasis on performing Salat regularly at proper time in proper way.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Allah and His Messenger have fixed up the method and time of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">So Salat should be performed properly five times a day at the fixed times and in prescribed methods.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Salat without fixed time and prescribed method will not be acceptable.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">We shall perform Salat at due time in proper way.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Allah will be pleased with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Our lives will be graceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">We will enter Jannat in the hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Jamaat means group or congregation.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">In Islamic terminology, performance of Salat unitedly by one Imam and other followers is called Jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">To perform Salat with Jamaat has been emphasized in Shariah.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">Allah Almighty says- Meaning: And bow down your heads with those who bow down.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">(Baqara 2:43) i.e. perform Salat in Jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">The Generous Prophet (Sm) said about Jamaat, Salat in Jamaat brings reward twenty seven times greater than Salat alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">(Bukhari and Muslim).</sent>
				<sent id ="33">The Holy Prophet (Sm) had great liking for persons performing Salat in Jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">He never gave up Jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He used to inquire of a person not attending Jamaat and would become displeased for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">The social importance of Salat in Jamaat is manifold.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">To perform Salat behind an Imam implies following of a leader.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">During Salat in Jamaat, there remains no difference between man and man.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">King and subject, rich and poor, high and low, educated and illiterate all stand in the same row.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">This reflects national unity among Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">We all are men.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">All of us have to stand before Allah in the same condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">This leasson is learnf from Salat in Jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">It becomes easy to inquire of one another if Salat is performed in Jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">It becomes possible to help one another in distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">The feeling of brotherhood becomes strong due to Salat in Jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">We shall realize the importance of Salat in Jamaat and perform Salat in Jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Those who perform Salat behind an Imam following him are called Muqtadis.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Muqtadi will intend in Salat as : I am performing Salat behind this Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Muqtadi will have to follow the Imam in all the activities of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">But the Muqtadi need not recite Sura-qirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Muqtadis will stand behind Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">If there is only one Muqtadi, he will stand to the right of Imam slightly behind him.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">The method of performing Salat in Jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Introduction to the Muqtadi and what he will have to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">We shall perform Salat in Jamaat regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Thus we will derive much reward.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">The bond of our brotherhood will be very strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">A man who joins in Salat with Imam after one or more than one Rakat over is called Masbuq.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">A person will join the Imam in whatever condition he finds him in Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">After that he will perform Ruku and Sajdah as usual and then sit for Tashahhud.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">After that he will perform Ruku and Sajdah, therafter recite as usual Tashahhud, Darud, Dua Masura.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Then he will complete the Salat with Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">In other words he will perform that portion as he does when performing Salat alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The portion which he shares with Imam with Ruku will be treated as complete.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">If he joins the Imam after Ruku, he will have to complete that Rakat as Masbuk.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Musafir is an Arabic word.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It means traveller.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">A man intending to travel 48 miles, when out of his home is called, in Islamic terminology, a Musafir.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">A Musafir after reaching his destination will remain a Musafir so long as he does not intend to stay at least for fifteen days.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">In Shariah, Musafir has been allowed to cut his Salat short.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">This cutting short is called Qasr in Arabic.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It is said in the Holy Quran- When travel through the earth there is no blame on you if you shorten your Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">The Generous Prophet (Sm) said regarding the Salat of Musafir This is a gift that Allah Almighty has given you (Musafir).</sent>
				<sent id ="75">Accept this gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Musafir will perform Zuhr, Asr and Isha.s</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Farz (obligatory) as two Rakats instead of four Rakats each, There is no Qasr in Fajr, Maghrib and Bitr Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">These are to be performed in full.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">We should accept all opportunities and concessions granted by Allah with a delighted mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">Therefore if a Musafir willfully performs Zuhr.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Asr or Isha Farz as four Rakats, he will be committing sin because of his rejection of the concession granted by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">A sick man will have to perform Salat till he is in his senses.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Howsoever serious the disease may be, he cannot give up Salat unless he is totally incapacitated.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">If it is painful for him to stand, he will perform Salat sitting with Ruku and Sajdah.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">If he is unable to perform Ruku and Sajdah he will perform Salat with gesture.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">In that case he will bow his head more in Sajdah than in Ruku.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Gesture will be made with head; gesture with eye is not enough for valid performance of Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">Incase of sitting, sick man will sit as in Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">In the alternative he will keep his head towards North, lying on one side and keeping his face towards Qibla, perform his Salat by gesture.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">If that is also not possible, he will be exempted from performing Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">If in that incapacitated condition 24 hours are over i,e.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">five or less Salats are missed, he will have to perform them as Qaza when he recovers.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">If more than five Salats are missed he will be exempted from Qaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">If anybody becomes senseless and in that condition more than five Salats are missed, he will not have to perform them as Qaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">If however he is senseless for five or less than five Salats, he will have to perform Qaza after recovery .</sent>
				<sent id ="96">On Friday at the time of Zuhr, the Salat, which is performed in place of Zuhr, is called Jumua.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Jumua's Jamaat is held in Jumua mosque on every Friday.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Jumua Salat is Farz (Obligatory).</sent>
				<sent id ="99">Whoever disbelieves it is a Kafir.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">If anybody gives it up negligently, he becomes a fasiq (sinner).</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Jumuas Salat is obligatory on every adult, intelligent, free, Muslim male.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Allah Almighty says : Meaning: O you who believe!</sent>
				<sent id ="103">When the call is proclaimed to Salat on Friday, hasten earnestly to the Remembrance of Allah, and leave off business.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">That is best for you if you but knew.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">The merits of Jumua's Salat are manifold.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">Allah Almighty forgives all his (Saghira) sins committed since last Jumua till the present one.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">(Bukhari) Severe punishment will have to be suffered if Jumua Salat is given up.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Jumua's Salat has much merit.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The people of the area gather in the Salat of Jumua.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">They visit one another and exchange greetings.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">It gives an Opportunity to help one another in joy and sorrow.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">The unity of Muslims become strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">The two Rakats of Jumua's Salat are binding, obligatory (Farz).</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Four Rakats Qablal Jumua before it and four Rakats Ba'dal Jumua after it are Sunnat (commendable Ibadat).</sent>
				<sent id ="115">Jamaat is a condition for Jumua's Farz.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Jumua is not valid without Jamaat.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">If a man Fails to attend Jumua for some reason or other, he will have to perform Zuhr.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">It is for this reason Jumua is performed at the time of Zuhr.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Two Azans (call) are there for Jumua.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">The Imam delivers Khutba standing on the mimber addressing the people before Farz of Jumua.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">To listen to Khutba is Wajib (unavoidable duty).</sent>
				<sent id ="122">Speaking or performing other Salat during Khutba is prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">After the Khutba is over, two Rakats Farz Jumua like other Farz Salat are to be performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Introduction to Jumua's Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">Significance and importance of Jumua's Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">Conditions for performing Jumua's Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Method of performing Jumua's Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">We shall regularly perform Jumua's Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">We shall earn much virtue.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">We shall never give up this Salat negligently.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Id means joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">The day of Id is a national day of joy and happiness for the Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">The Great Prophet (Sm) said Every nation has a day of festival.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">Our festival is Id.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">(Bukhariand Muslim) There are two Ids in a year- Idul fitr and Idul Azha.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">All Muslims of an area gather at the IIdghah.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">They express gratitude to Allah after performing two Rakats Salat of lId.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The Salat of'Id is Wajib (unavoidable duty).</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Six additional Takbirs are there in Id.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Id means joy and fitr means breaking of Sawm.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">Idul fitr means joy of breaking Sawm.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">The Muslims observe this festival on the first day of Shawwal after Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">To perform Salat of Id is Wajib.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">On this day inquiry about relatives, neighbours and others are to be made.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">On this day, payment of Sadaqatul fitr is Wajib on the rich.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">As a result poor and destitute- all can share happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Every face beams with delight.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">This festival is observed on the 10th of Zilhaj.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">This festival bears the meamgry of a great sacrifice.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Knowing that it was the desire of Allah, so Ismail (As) also gladly put his head under a sharp knife.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">To commemorate this event, the Muslims sacrifice animals every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Remembering this unparalleled history of sacrifice the Muslims take vow before Allah on this day.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">Qurbani (sacrifice) is Wajib on every welloff Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">It begets great rewards.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Iman and Taqwa of the Muslims are tested through this Qurbani.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Allah Almighty says- It is not their meat, not their blood that reaches Allah; it is piety that reaches him.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">The Holy Prophet (Sm) said, Before the blood of Qurbani flows on the earth, it becomes accepted.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">He further said, For every wool of the animal of Qurbani, there is a reward.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">With the view to be blessed with Allah's pleasure and unlimited reward we shall offer Qurbani with pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">The meat of Qurbani is to be divided into three portions.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">One portion for self, one for the relatives and neighbours and the third for the poor and the destitute is commendable.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">In this way the poor will be able to share the happiness of Id along with the rich.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">The Sunnats of'Idul Azha are similar to those of 'Idul Fitr.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">The only difference is that in Idul Fitr to eat something before and in Idul Azha after the Salat is Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Id Salat can be performed after the sunrise till prior to midday.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">At first we stand in a row and intending Salat shall put one hand on the other after reciting Takbir Tahrima.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">We shall recite Sana and shall recite three Takbirs with Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">At the time of Takbir hands will be raised to the ears.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">The Imam after completing the first Rakat as usual and before going to Ruku for the second will utter three additional Takbirs.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">We shall also recite Takbirs along with him, raising hands to the ears and leaving them as usual without putting one on the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">On the fourth Takbir we shall perform Ruku.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">After that we shall complete the Salat as usual.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Imam will deliver Khutba after Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">To listen to Khutba is Wajib.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The Takbir while going to Idgah is similar to that of Idul Fitr.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Only difference being Takbir is to be uttered silently in Idul Fitr and loudly in Idul Azha.</sent>
				<sent id ="177">Reciting of this Takbir from Fajr of the 9th Zilhajj till the Asr of the 13th after each Farz is Wajib.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">This Takbir is known as Takbir Tashriq.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">We all shall celebrate Id festival in above-mentioned way.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Our lives will be graceful.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The Salat performed with four Takbirs keeping the dead body in front before it is buried in the grave is called Salatul Janaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">Janaza's Salat is Farz Kifaya (collective obligation).</sent>
				<sent id ="183">i.e. performing this Salat by some people removes the obligation from all.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">If nobody performs it everybody in the area will be sharing sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">In this Salat there is no Ruku or Sajdah.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Man is mortal.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Everybody will have to die one day or the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Living men have many responsibilities towards the dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">To bathe the dead, to put on Kafan cloth, to perform Salatul Janaza and at last to bury him is our bounden duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">In fact Janaza's Salat is seeking forgiveness for the dead.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The more people attend it, the more is the likelihood of it's being accepted.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">So, the more people attend Janaza, the better.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">It is proper to circulate the news of death all around so that more people attend Janaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">The significance and importance of Janaza Salat is boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">This Salat reminds us that all of us will have to return one day to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Sympathy of man to man is expressed through Janaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">After the dead body is bathed and wrapped in kafan cloth, the Imam will keep it in front and stand adjacent to the bosom.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">We shall stand behind him.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Then we shall silently intend as- I am performing Salatul Janaza with four takbirs facing Qibla behind this Imam.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">After that we shall raise our hands up to the ears and then put one hand on the other.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">We shall recite Sana and recite second takbir with Imam without moving the hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">After that we shall recite durud and with Imam shall recite the third takbir and recite the following Dua.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">After this Dua, we shall recite the fourth takbir, and complete the Salat with Salam.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">We shall not raise the hands with takbir.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">If the dead body is that of a male child, we shall recite the following Dua after the third takbir.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Introduction to Janaza Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Significance and importance of Janaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Method of performing Janaza Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">We shall join Salat of Janaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">We shall pray to Allah for the salvation of the deceased.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">As described in the table, twelve Rakats Sunnat Muwakkadah are there besides the Farz and Wajib.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">The Holy Prophet (Sm) himself performed these Salats and encouraged others to perform the same.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">During the month of Ramadhan, the Salat that is to be performed after Isha and before Bitr is called Salatut Tarabih.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">This Salat is Sunnat Muwkkadah.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">The Holy Prophet (Sm) himself performed this Salat and Commanded his companions to perform it.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">Normally there is no provision for Jamaat in Sunnat Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">But in Tarabih, Jamaat is Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">This Salat consists of twenty Rakats in all.</sent>
				<sent id ="219">The holy month of Ramadan is a month of mercy and grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Ramadan month is the best time for getting rid of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">This opportunity for the servants of Allah comes only onece in a year.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">So the beloved servants of Allah taking this opportunity endeavour to be bestowed with His Grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">It is commendable to recite the Holy Quran in full in Tarabih during the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">The Holy Prophet (Sm) said whoever performs Tarabih during Ramadan with full conviction and in the hope for reward.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">Allah will pardon all his sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Importance, significance and merits of Tarabih Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Method of performing Tarabih Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">We shall regularly perform Tarabih Salat in Jammat during Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">Allah will be pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">We shall get many rewards.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">To perform the Salat of Tahajjud is Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Its importance is boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The Holy Prophet (Sm) used to perform this Salat regularly and also encouraged his companions to perform it.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">In the Holy Quran, great emphasis has been laid on it.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The servant is spiritually elevated through Tahajjud.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">By performance; of this Salat, the path of the virtuous life becomes wider.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">We shall try to perform Tahajjud Salat regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">For this Allah will bestow us with His Grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">It is preferable to perform Tahajjud Salat at the later half of night.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Eight Rakats are Sunnat, yet at least two Rakats, after Isha may serve the purpose.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">This Salat is to be performed in twos and in the manner of Sunnat Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">It is better to recite Darud after Tahajjud Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">It is better to perform Bitr after that.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Ishraq Salat is Sannat-e-Zaida or Nafl.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">It has much merit.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">There are many statements in Hadith regarding its merits.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">It brings many rewards.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Ishraq Salat is four Rakats to be performed twice in twos.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Ishraq Salat is to be performed after sunrise.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">It, is commendable to remain sitting after Fajr and reciting the Holy Quran, Tasbih Tahlil and Durud avoiding any talk or activity.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">After the rise of the sun completely, this Salat is to be performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">If anybody performs this Salat after completing some necessary wordly work after Farj, then it is alright though the reward will be less.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">We shall be accustomed to perform this Salat in the hope of attaining nearness to Allah and more reward.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Salatul Awwabin is also a Sunnat-e-Zaida.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Many merits of this Salat have been narrated in Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">Many rewards can be earned by regularly performing this Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Salatul Awwabin may be performed after Maghrib Farz and two Rakat Sunnat till prior to the time of Isha.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">It is six Rakats to be performed in twos.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">In order to attain more rewards we shall be accustomed to perform this Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Sunnat Salat before Asr and Isha.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Four Rakat Salat before the Farz of Asr are Sunnat-e-Zaida.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">The Holy Prophet (Sm) performed this Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Four Rakats before Isha's Farz is also commendable.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">It brings much reward.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">We shall perform this Salat with the hope of getting more rewards.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">Yet there will be no sin if this Salat is not performed.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">Sawm means to abstain.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Observance of Sawm in the month of Ramadhan is Farz on Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">Allah Almighty says : O you who believe!</sent>
				<sent id ="270">Fasting is prescribed to you.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">(Baqara 2:183) Observance of Sawm is Farz.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Whoever denies it, becomes a Kafir.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Anybody not observing it without valid ground becomes a fasiq and Sinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">Sawm was obligatory in every Shariah.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">It is an obligatory Ibadat for all previous ummah.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">It is sai in the Holy Quran : As it was prescribed to those before you.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">By observing Sawm men become mutually sympathetic.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Rich people will be able to realize the sufferings of the poor for leading their lives in starvation and half starvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">So they become encouraged for giving alms and charity.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Bad habits like malice, envy, slander, addiction to smoking etc. can easily be given up through Sawm.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">It is stated in a Hadith Meaning: Sawm is like a shield.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Sawm is a weapon of selfdefence in the war against evil propensity.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Habit of regulated life in taking food and drinks- formed through Sawm.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Many of the diseases are cured due to this Health remains sound.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Objective The main objective of Sawm is to attain Taqwa (self-restraint), to be Allah-fearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">Allah says- Meaning : That you may (learn) self-restraint.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Taqwa means fear of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">The man, who fears Allah, cannot commit any sin or cause harm to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">Sawm has much merit.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">So everyone of you who is present (at his home) during the month should spend it in fasting.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">It is understood from this that the month of Ramadan is a super holy month because the Quran was revealed in this month.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">The Holy Prophet (Sm) says, Allah says- Meaning : Sawm is only for Me.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">I Myself will repay for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">This month is a month of patience, of perseverance.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">The reward of patience is Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">The livelihood of the believer is increases in this month.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">The month of Ramadan has been divided into three arts as per merits.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">The first part is that of grace, the second part of that of pardon and the third part is that of salvation from Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Farz Sawm : To observe Sawm only in the month of Ramadan is Farz in die whole year.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Anybody denying it is a Kafir.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">Qaza of Sawm of Ramadan is also Farz.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Anybody not observing at without valid reasons is a fasiq and sinner.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">Wajib Sawm : Sawm of manaf (vow) is Wajib.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">If anyone vows of Sawm, a particular day, it is unavoidable to observe it on that day.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Observance of Sawm on Ashura and Arafa is Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">Mustahab Sawm : To observe Sawm on the 13th, 14th and 15th; of lunar month is Mustahab.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">To observe Sawm on Monday, Thursday and six days in Shawwal is also Mustahab.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">e. Nafl Sawm: Except Farz, Wajib, Sunnat and Mustabab Sawm, all other Sawms are Nafle.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Except those days when Sawm is Makruh, Sawm on any other is Nafl.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">Makruh Tahrimi : Which in fact, is strictly prohibited (Haram) e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">Sawm on two Id days and on the 11th, 12th and 13th of Zilhajj.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Eating and drinking before dawn for the purpose of Sawm is called Sahri.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Sahri is Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">The Holy Prophet (Sm) himself used to take Sahri and encouraged others to take it.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">He said, Sahri is an act of barkat ( affluence).</sent>
				<sent id ="316">You take Sahri.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">To complete Sawm after sunset by taking something with intention is called Iftar.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Iftar is Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">It brings many Sawab.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Meaning: O Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="321">I observed Sawm for your sake and took Iftar with your gift.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Much reward will be earned if one gives Iftar to others along with taking it himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">The Holy Prophet (Sm) says, whoever offers Iftar to others will get Sawab equal to that of the fasting person.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">We shall take Iftar and offer it to others in order to get more Sawab and Grace of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">The causes for which Sawm is broken and one Sawm will have to be observed for the broken one.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">If one takes something mistakenly and supposing that his Sawm is broken he therefore takes food and drinks deliberately.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">If water goes to stomach unwillingly at the time of gurgling.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">If the fasting man is forced to take food or drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">If one takes Sahri mistakenly after dawn supposing that night is not yet over.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">If one takes Iftar mistakenly before sunset supposing that it is time for Iftar.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">If one vomits willfully to the extent of full mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">If one penetrates medicine or some other thing through the way of urme or anus.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">By speaking ill of others or backbiting.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">By telling a lie, by obscene conduct or by abusing others.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">By hubble-bubble at the time of gurgling, because thereby water may go down through throat and cause break of Sawm.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">By not taking Iftar at due time.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">By wrapping up of cold cloth frequently due to feeling of hot or to gurgle frequently.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">This is called Qaza.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">If food or drink is taken after dawn supposing it to be night, or Iftar is taken before sunset supposing it to be aftar sunset.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Willful vomiting to the extent of full mouth.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">If one is forced to take food or drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">If water goes down to the stomach unwillingly at the time of gurgling.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">If after taking something by mistake, someone takes something deliberately thinking that his sawm was broken.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">If something of the size of a gram attached to the teeth is taken out of mouth and eaten.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Willfull giving up of Sawm or breaking it without valid reason entails Qaza (substitute for default) and Kaffara (atonement) as obligatory.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">If there is a break in observing two months consecutive Sawm, the former Sawm will be void.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Again two months Sawm will have to be observed afresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">But there is some exception in case of women.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">Meaning : I'tikaf means to stay, to be detained.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">In the terminology of Shariah, to stay in a mosque for Ibadat detached from family is called I'tikaf.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">I'tikaf is Sunnat-e-Muakkada-Kifaya (optional).</sent>
				<sent id ="352">If it is observed by anyone in the locality it will suffice, it nobody observes it, everybody becomes responsible.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">The man who observes I'tikaf remains engaged in Allah's Ibadat completely detached from worldly affairs.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Thus he remains aloof from sin and useless talk.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">The tie with Allah becomes strong.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">Deep impression of fear of Allah is created in his mind due to several days earnest Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">So he is not led astry by worldly glamour from Allahs Zikr.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">Ibadat brings peace to his mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">I'tikaf has many merits.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">The Holy Prophet (Sm) used regularly to observe I'tikaf every year.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">Hazrat Aisha (Ra) says, the Holy Prophet (Sm) used to observe.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">I'tikaf in last ten days of every Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="363">This continued till his demise.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">After his demise, his wives observed this practice.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">The Holy Prophet (Sm) said, the man observing Itikaf remains aloof from sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">There is a blissful night called Lailatul Qadr in the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">This night is better than one thousand months.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">The probability of Lailatul Qadr is greater in the odd nights, especially the 27th night of the last ten days of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">Observing I'tikaf during this period may bring good luck of attainning Lailatul Qadr.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">I'tikaf on the last ten days of Ramadan is Sunnat.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">Its minimum period is one day and one night.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">Mustahab I'tikaf can be observed at any time outside Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">A woman can observe I'tikaf in a fixed place at her own house.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Sadaqatul Fitr is Wajib on a person possessing 71/2 Tolas of gold or 521h.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">Tolas of silver or any other property of euqal value besides the essential articles for -livelihood on the day of Idul Fitr at dawn.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">This quantity of property is called Nisab in the terminology of Shariah.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">The Holy Prophet (Sm) commanded the Muslims for payment of Sadaqatul Fitr in the same year when Sawm was made obligatory.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">We observe Sawm during the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">We remain dedicated to Allah's Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Mistakes and errors occur often while discharhing these responsibilities.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Sadaqatul Fitr has been made Wajib by Shariah at the end of Ramadan to compensate these errors in Sawm.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">On receiving Sadqatul Fitr, the poor and distribute also can share the happiness of Id.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">The bond of fellow-feeling is created among the poor and the rich and the difference is bridged.</sent>
				<sent id ="384">It is narrated in Hadith- the errors and defects in Sawm is removed by Sadaqatul Fitr, the poor is provided with food and drink.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">Even if one does not possess Nisab and yet pays Sadaqatul Fitr in order to attain Allah's pleasure, he will earn boundless reward.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">The owner of Nisab will have to pay Sadaqatul Fitr.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">It is better to pay one or two days before Id.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Otherwise it will have to be paid before Id Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">Half-sa i.e. about 2 kg of wheat or its value.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">We shall observe I'tikaf during Ramadhan and at the end of Ramadhan shall distribute Sadaqatul Fitr among the poor and distitute.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
