<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-islam-5</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.144</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">452</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">5401</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1704</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t179">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Hazrat Ismail (As) was a son of the great Prophet Hazrat Ibrahim (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="2">The name of his mother was Bibi Hajira (Hagar).</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Ismail (As) was born when the age of Hazrat Ibrahim (As) was eighty-six years.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Allah be glorified!</sent>
				<sent id ="5">He commanded Ibrahim (As) to send Hajira with her boy baby into exile.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">So he sent her into exile in the deserted Makka valley.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">Only some date and a leather box of water were left with them as provision.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">The date and water left by Hazrat Ibrahim (As) was finished.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">Hajira and baby Ismail were in aggrieved state due to hunger and thirst.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">The baby Ismail was about to die due to thirst.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Seeing this is the mother Hajira began running in a bewildered manner between Safa and Marwa Mountains in search of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Meanwhile baby Ismail was throwing his hands and legs continuously.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">All on a sudden, water sprang up from beside his legs.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Mother Hajira was charmed to look at it and saved her baby's life by making him drink water.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">She expressed her gratitude to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Supernaturally a well was created from that place.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">Its name is the well of Zamzam.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">People from different places began to flock there because of the availability of water.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">People were settling all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Hazrat Ibrahim (As) used to come occasionally from distant Syria to see Hajira and his son Ismail.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">On one such occasion, he informed Ismail that Allah has commanded him to sacrifice Ismail in the way of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Now what is his view?</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Ismail at that time was a boy of thirteen years.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Ismail said, father!</sent>
				<sent id ="25">I shall abide by all your directives.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">You fulfil the command of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Ibrahim let Ismail lie on the ground and started to operate a knife on his throat.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Supernaturally a dumba (sheep) was sacrificed and Ismail remained alive.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">The custom of animal sacrifice started from that date.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">I see in vision that I offer you in sacrifice; now see what is your view?</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Ismail said, O my father!</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Do as you are commanded, you will find me, if Allah so wills, one practising patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Hazrat Ibrahim (As) built Kaba at the command of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">At that time Ismail (As) helped him in every way.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">Ismail was of high dignity.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">Allah gave him the title of fulfiller of promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It is narrated that once he promised to a man that he would wait for the man till he comes to a fixed place.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">But the man failed to turn up yet Hazrat Ismail (As) continued to wait for him at that place for three days.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">The offspring of Hazrat Ismail (As) spread in different areas.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">The famous Quraish tribe was of his lineage.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Our beloved Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was born in the lineage of Hazrat Ismail (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Hazrat Ismail (As) breathed his last in Makka at the age of one hundred and thirty six years.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Introduction to Hazrat Ibrahim (As) and Hazrat Ismail (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The history of Hazrat Ismail (As)s sacrifice and dedication in the way of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">We shall learn the biography of Hazrat Ismail (As) and shall be able to tell it.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">We shall be inspired by the ideal of his life.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">We shall abide by the commands of our parents unhesitatingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">For this they will be pleased.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Allah's mercy will be showered on us.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">Hazrat Yusuf (As), the famous Prophet, hailed from Kanan and was a son of Yaqub (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Hazrat Yusuf (As) was the eleventh of twelve brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">He was incomparably beautiful, modest and possessed the highest quality of good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Of his all sons, the father Hazrat Yaqub (As) had deepest love for Yousuf.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">For this reason the brothers became envious.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">At last they hatched a conspiracy and saying that they were taking Yusuf for playing, took him out of the house.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">They brought him to a deserted ground and after beating, threw him into a deep well.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">After coming back home, they informed their father as, when we were engaged in play, a wolf grabbed Yusuf and ate him.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">This is his blood stained shirt.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">The shirt, although blood stained, was not tom.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Hazrat Yaqub (As) could not believe his sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He was aggrieved by the falsehood of his sons.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">A caravan on its way to Egypt was passing by the well in which Yusuf was thrown.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">They threw a pail into the well for water.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">Yusuf caught hold of the rope of the pail and come to the surface.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">The traders brought Yusuf to Egypt and sold him out as a slave to the finance minister of Egypt, Aziz by name.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Aziz was childless.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Although he purchased Yusuf as a slave, he reared him up with love and affection of a son.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">When Yusuf grew up as a young man, he was imprisoned on a false allegation.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">He earned the respect of everybody in the prison due to his deep knowledge a bestowed by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">Once the king of Egypt saw a peculiar dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">He saw that seven lean cows devour seven fat cows.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">He further saw that seven green ears of com and seven dry ears of com.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">He expressed great interest in knowing the interpretation of the dream.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">But none of the grandees, wise, learned men at the court could interpret it.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">At last he sought help from Yusuf.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Explaining the dream Yusuf (As) said, for seven years the kingdom will have plenty of harvest, there will be affluence.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">In the next seven years continued famine will prevail.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">He also indicated the way out ot the famine.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">He advised them to preserve the surplus food.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">The king was spellbound at the interpretation of Yusuf (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="81">He cleared him of all allegations.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">He honoured him with a high position in the court.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">The king appointed Yusuf (As) as finance minister.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Meanwhile, faminestricken brothers of Yusuf (As) came thrice to Egypt for foodstuff.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">Yusuf (As) could recognize them during their first visit, but kept his identity undisclosed.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">He allotted every time full delivery of foodstuff to them on humanitarian consideration.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">On the second visit, he tactfully kept his brother, born of the same mother, to himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">On the third occasion, Yusuf (As) disclosed his identity to his brothers.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">Then the brothers realized their blunder and apologized to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">They declared, By Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Certainly Allah has preferred you above us and we certainly have been guilty of sin.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">After that Yusuf (As) invited his brothers to bring the father and father members of family to Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">The brothers came to Egypt along with the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Yusuf (As) accorded honourable reception to them.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">They began to live amicably.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Yusuf (As) breathed his last at the age of one hundred and ten years.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Introduction to Yusuf (As): Instance offorgiveriess by Yusuf (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="98">Reward for patience is available if one relies on Allah and has patience during difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">We shall learn the life sketch of Yusuf (As) and shall be able to tell it.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">We shall be inspired by his ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">Hazrat Aiyub (As) was a famous Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">He was owner of vast wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Allah Almighty wanted to test his Iman and patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">All the items of his wealthhouses, buildings, gardens- were lost to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">He became penniless.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">His seven sons and seven daughters all of them died.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">Despite all these, he did not lose patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">He continued to be devoted to Ibadat as before.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">At last his body got wounded, ulcerated.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Meat from the body was rotting and becoming decomposed.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">His body was attached by worm.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">His villagers asked him to leave their village.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">Relatives left him alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Only companion left was the chaste lady, his wife Rahima.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">She continued to nurse him.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">In the face of the panic and neglect of the villagers, Bibi Rahima sought refuge in a place outside the village.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">She used to collect food, drink and other necessary things by wages earned form labour. Seven years and a few months elapsed in this way.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">Aiyub (As) used to devote himself in the remembrance of Allah with a contented heart enduring all sorrows and difficulties.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">It is for this reason that Allah says about him, Truly We found him full of patience and constancy, how excellent in our service!</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Ever did he turn to us! Afflicted by disease, Hazrat Aiyub (As) at once stage supplicated in a sad voice to Allah for recovery.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">(Ambiya 21:83) Allah Almighty accepted his prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He commanded him to strike the earth with his leg.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">Immediately after the strike, water was springing up beside his leg and a well was created.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Aiyub (As) drank that water and bathed with it.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">He recovered instantaneously.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">He became healthy as before, no sign of disease was left.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Allah returned to him all his lost wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">Hazrat Aiyub (As) started afresh propagating the Deen of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">He lived long after recovery.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Introduction to Hazrat Aiyub (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Allah blesses with reward if anybody is patient during serious affliction.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">We shall learn the identity of Hazrat Aiyub (As) and shall be able to tell it.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">We shallieam from his life the lesson of patience during distress.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">The Great Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was born in 570 AC (After Christ) in the tribe of Quraish.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The name of his father is Abdullah and name of his mother is Amina.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">His father died even before he was born.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">His mother also died when he was six years old.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">He was reared up in his childhood by his grandfather Abdul Muttalib and by his uncle Abu Talib.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) was blessed with Prophethood at the age of forty years.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">After that he started the call for belief in Allah (Iman) at first to his close relations.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">At his call, at first Hazrat Khadija (Ra) and then Hazrat Ali (Ra) and Hazrat Abu Bakr (Ra) accepted Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">At that time the Great Prophet (Sm) used to preach Islam secretly.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Thereafter Allah commanded him to preach publicly.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">So he started preaching publicly.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">All people replied, you are Al Amin, the trusted, we shall certainly believe you.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">The Great Prophet (Sm) said, Believe in one Allah, you will attain salvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">Hearing this, all of them became angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">Abu Lahab shouted, Perish you!</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Have you called us for this?</sent>
				<sent id ="150">They returned abusing him.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">They started opposing him.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">They branded him as a lunatic and a sorcerer.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">They started oppressing him and his followers in many ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">Miraj means ladder, staircase, going upwards.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">He met the preceding Prophets and led them in two Rakat Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">From there he crossed the seven heavens and was honoured with Didar or vision of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">He was commanded for five times Salat a day.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Miraj is the most singificant event in the life of the Prophet.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">This event inspired him for renewed efforts.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Thus the importance of Miraj in the life of the Prophet is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">In 621 AC during the Hajj season, a team consisting of 12 members from Madina arrived at Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">They met the Great Prophet (Sm) secretly at Aqaba valley and accepted Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">After that year, a group of seventy-five members including two women, came to Makka during Hajj time.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">They met the Prophet (Sm) at Aqaba and accepted Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">They invited the Great Prophet (Sm) to go to Madina and promised to protect him at all costs.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">The Great Prophet (Sm) accepted their invitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">When the spread of Islam was extremely hindered by the Quraish in Makka, the Prophet (Sm) kept waiting for Allah's commend to migrate to Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">When the infidels of Makka observed that the Muslims were leaving Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">one after another and migrating to Madina and Makka was being deserted by Muslims, they thought the Great Prophet (Sm) might also leave the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">The apprehension that Muhammad (Sm) may leave Makka led them to decide to kill him collectively.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">Accordingly they at night laid siege to the liouse of the Great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="172">They were waiting for dawn to kill him.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">But by the Glory of Allah, the Great Prophet (Sm) came out of his house avoiding their sight.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He started for Madina accompanied by Hazrat Abu Bakr (Ra).</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He left Ali (Ra) in his house for returning the deposited wealth to the owners.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">The infidels, on entering the house found Hazrat Ali (Ra) on the bed of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="177">They were beside themselves with anger, but they had nothing to do at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Advancing to a certain distance, the Great Prophet (Sm) and Abu Bakr Siddiq (Ra) sought refuge in a cave named Thawr at Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">Searching for them, the infidels came almost to the mouth of the cave.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Observing the movements of the infidels near the cave Abu Bakr (Ra) became a bit perturbed.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">The Great Prophet said, O Abu Bakr! Do not worry, Allah is with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">After three days stay in the Thawr cave, the Great Prophet (Sm) arrived at Madina on 24th September, 622 AC.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">One and all in Madina recieved him cordially.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Prophethood of the Great Prophet (Sm) and his preaching of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Introduction to Miraj and its importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">Migration of the Great Prophet (Sm) to Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">We shall learn the noble character of the Great Prophet (Sm) and shall realize its importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">We shall be able to tell it.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">We shall learn that real wellbeing in this life and hereafter depends on following his ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">We shall endeavour to follow his ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The great warrior and companion Hazrat Hamza (Ra) was an uncle of the great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="192">His conversion to Islam was a sudden incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">After being bestowed with Prophethood, the Great Prophet (Sm) started preaching Islam publicly.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">For this reason the infidels started opposition and oppression.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">In the meantime one day the Great Prophet (Sm) was in meditation at the foot of Safa mountain.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">The wicked Abu Jahl rebuked him in an extremely, objectionable language and struck him.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Uttering not a word the Great Prophet (Sm) returned home.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Hamza (Ra) had just returned from hunting.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">He came to know about this incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">He rushed angrily in that condition to the compound of Kaba.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">Seeing Abu Jahl sitting among other leaders of Quraish he roared like a lion.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Striking Abu Jahl's head with his bow again and again, he said, What!</sent>
				<sent id ="203">You dare rebuke my nephew and strike him!</sent>
				<sent id ="204">Abu jahl replied, I did so only because he speaks ill of our religion.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Hamza presently went the Great Prophet (Sm) and narrated the whole incident.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">He also informed him about his conversion to Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">The Great Prophet (Sm) was very pleased by acceptance of Islam by a warrior like Hamza.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Hazrat Hamza (Ra) was a mighty brave warrior.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">He was honoured by the title of the lion of Allah and His Prophet's for his incomparable bravery.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">After accepting Islam Hamza (Ra) dedicated himself to the cause of the Great Prophet (Sm) and Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">He remained like a shadow with the Great Prophet during different crises.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">Hazrat Hamza (Ra) earned name and fame for his excellent bravery in the battle of Badr.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">In that battle the Muslims kill many Quraish leaders including Abu Jahl.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">As a result at one stage of the battle, Abyssinian slave Wahshi Ibn Harb with a'spear attacked him.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">He fell down on the ground and was martyred.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">We shall learn about the boundless valour of Hazrat Hamza (Ra) and be able to tell them.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">We shall follow his ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">Hazrat Fatima (Ra) was the youngest daughter of the Great Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) and Hazrat Khadija (Ra).</sent>
				<sent id ="219">She was born in 605 AC at Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">From her childhood she was as intelligent as the possessor of every good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">Her title was Zahra (Exquisitely beautiful or paragon of beauty) and Batul (sacred, indifferent to worldly things).</sent>
				<sent id ="222">The Great Prophet loved her very much.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">She was married to Hazrat Ali (Ra) after the battle of Badr in the second year of Hijri.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Hazrat Ali (Ra), the husband of Hazrat Fatima (Ra) was very poor.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">He used to earn his livelihood by hard labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Due to poverty they used ,to live with one meal a day or even without a meal throughout the day.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Sometimes they were starving for two three days.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">Yet they did never lose patience.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">They were always beaming with contentment.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Fatima (Ra) used to perform by herself all her domestic duties.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">She herself would do everything from rearing up of children, service to the husband as well as all other activites.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">Blister would develop in her hands for pressing millstone.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">She had no slaves.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">She did not like decoration or pomp and grandeur.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">She used to lead a simple life.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Despite poverty, Fatima (Ra) was very much charitable.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">She never returned a beggar empty-handed.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">She herself would spend her day simply by drinking water.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">When in deathbed, the Prophet (Sm) asked her to come and said to her, O my mother!</sent>
				<sent id ="240">I shall be no more, I shall take leave of you.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Fatima (Ra) was grief-stricken and began to cry.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Seeing this, the Prophet (Sm) brought his face to her ear and whispered, Mother!</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Of all members of my family you will be the first to join me.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Hearing this, Fatima (Ra) smiled with pleasure.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Hazrat Fatima had acquired all the qualities of her ideal parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">She had devotion to truth, patience, charity, modesty, loyalty to husband, dependence on Allah etc. all the noble qualities.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">She is the leader of all women in Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Fatima (Ra) was the apple of the Prophet's eye.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">The Prophet (Sm) said, whoever gives trouble to Fatima, he infact gives trouble to me.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">(Bukhari) Hazrat Fatima (Ra) was the mother of Imam Hasan and Imam Hussain (Ra).</sent>
				<sent id ="251">The ideal of the women of the world, Hazrat Fatima (Ra) breathed her last in the eleventh Hijri 633 AC.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">six months after the demise of the Great Prophet (Sm) We shall learn Fatima (Ra)s life and be able to tell it.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">We shall follow her ideal of life.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Hazrat Bilal (Ra) was an Abyssinian (Ethiopian) slave.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">The name of his father is Ribah and the name of his mother is Hamama.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">His nickname was Abu Abdullah.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Bilal (Ra) was a slave of Umaiya Ibn Khalf.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">He accepted Islam at its early period.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Bilal's master effected indescribable oppression on him for his acceptance of Islam and pressed him hard for giving it up.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Bilal's steadfastness made his master extremely angry and he tormented him in an inhuman manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">He kept him starving from morning till dusk and struck him mercilessly.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">As a result his body was cracked at places and blood would spring up.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">In this condition he was put in the evening in a room with bad odour after fastening his neck like an animal.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">Bilal would then fidget with grief, yet his master would have no mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">In these circumstances Bilal (Ra) always-uttered Ahad Ahad-Allah is one, Allah is one.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">This would enhance the anger of his master.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">He would increase the degree of oppressions.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Sometime his master called the wicked boys of the locality and handed him over to them with rope in his neck.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The Prophet (Sm) on hearing the news of Bilal's oppression was very sad.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">But he had nothing to do.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">Once Abu Bakr (Ra), while passing through that path saw the horrible scene of oppression and became mortified.</sent>
				<sent id ="272">He thereafter purchased him at a high cost from the oppressing master and set him free.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">Bilal beamed with joy.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">He forgot all his sufferings.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">Bilal migrated to Madina according to the order of the Great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="276">He used to accompany the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="277">He would be in-charge of the provisions.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">He was therefore called Khazin, the treasurer or storekeeper of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="279">When after hijrat, the rite of Azan began, the Prophet (Sm) appointed Bilal as the first Muazzin.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">Bilal (Ra) had the honour of reciting Azan on the roof of Kaba Sharif during the victory of Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">The Great Prophet (Sm) loved Bilal deeply.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">He breathed his last at Damascus in 20AH/641 AC at the age of sixty.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">We shall follow the ideal of Bilal (Ra).</sent>
				<sent id ="284">We shall remain firm in the path of justice and truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">We shall never submit to injustice and wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">The famous companion and great warrior Hazrat Khalid Ibn Walid was born in Banu Makhzum of the Quraish tribe.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">His mother Lubaba Bint Harith was the sister of Hazrat Maimuna (Ra) the wife of the Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="288">From this point, the Prophet (Sm) was his maternal uncle.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">While he was a teen-ager, he became an expert in the art of horse riding, archery and swordmanship.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">He accepted Islam in the eighth year of Prophethood.</sent>
				<sent id ="291">He was as valiant as skilled in warfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">Before he accepted Islam, he waged war against the Muslims along with the infidels.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">He was among the infidels during the Battle of Uhud.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">At one stage he caused serious threat to the Muslims by his war tactics.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">After he accepted Islam, the Muslim army was victorious in various battlefields due to his skillful direction.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">In the Battle of Muta, he exhibited his unbounded bravery and incomparable war strategy.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">The Battle of Muta took place in the 8th Hijri.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">At the first phase of this battle, the Muslims faced disaster.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">Three commanders of Muslim army martyred one after another.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">This caused mental upset of the Muslim army.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">At this critical juncture, Hazrat Khalid Ibn Walid (Ra) exhibited surprising inspiration and bravery.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">This revived the inspiration of the Muslim army multiplied many times.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">They started fighting with new zeal.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">Besides, he rearranged the army in a fresh style.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">Seeing this, the infidel army became unnerved.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">They thought that the Muslims had brought new forces from Madina.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">So all on a sudden they fled away from the battlefield.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">The Muslims were victorious.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">He participated in the victory of Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">He led the Muslim army in the ninth Hijri against the Christian king of Dumatul Jandal.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">He also led the expedition against Najran in the tenth Hijri.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Hazrat Abu Bakr (Ra) sent Khalid Ibn Walid against the pretender Tulaiha in the eleventh Hijri.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">Besides he established peace in the Islamic State by subduing other pretenders including Musailima, the great lair and Sajah.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">He successfully led expeditions against Persia, Syria and Demascus.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">Immediately before the victory of Damascus, Hazrat Umar (Ra) removed him from the post of commander-in-chief in 635 AC.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">He received the letter of his removal and the appointment of Abu Ubaida Ibnul Jarrah (Ra) in his place while he was conducting the battle.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Immediately he unfastened the sign of commander-in-chief and handed it over to Abu Ubaida.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">He then participated in the battle with a contented heart as an ordinary soldier.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">A real Muslim fights for the cause of Islam, not for a post.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Khalid IbnWalid (Ra) had dedicated his life to the service of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">His contribution to the spread and preaching of Islam is boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">We shall learn about the bravery and achievement of Hazrat Khalid Ibn Walid (Ra) in the battlefield and be able to tell it.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">We shall follow his ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">The world famous, wise erudite Imam Shafiye (R)s full name is Abu Abdullah Muhammad Ibn Idris As-Shafiye.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">His mazhab (school of thought) has been named as Shafiye mazhab after his name.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">He came of Hashimi clan of the Quraish tribe in Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">He was a distant relation of the Holy Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="328">He was born at Ghaza in palestine in 150 AH/767 AC.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">He lost his father in his childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">After that her mother brought him to Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">They led their lives in dire poverty.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">Possessing an extra ordinary memory, Shafiye, began his primary education in Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">He memorized the whole Quran when his age was only seven years.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">Then he studied Arabic language and classical Arabic poetry.</sent>
				<sent id ="335">After that he learnt Hadith, Fiqh and other subjects from eminent scholars in Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">At that time he memorized the famous book on Hadith Muatta.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">He went to Madina when he was twenty.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">There he for longtime pursued higher studies in Hadith and different other branches of Islamic knowledge with Imam Malik Ibn Anas (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="339">After completion of education, he went to Yemen and accepted a job.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">Serving there for a short while, he again left for higher education with famous Scholar Muhammad Ibn Hasan As-Shaibani (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="341">Staying there for sometime he went to Baghdad and started teaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">After that he went to Egypt.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">Since disorder prevailed there he went back to Makka.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Again he went to Egypt in 200 AH.</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Wherever he went, he taught Fiqh and Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">Many a schola'r earned worldwide fame after they had been educated by him.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">Imam Shafiye was simultaneously an eminent Hadith specialist as well as an expert on Islamic Law.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">He was the founder of Islamic l1sulul Fiqh or jurisprudence.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">He wrote many books on Hadith, Fiqh, Usulul Fiqh and other branches of Islamic knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Of his writings, the large book Kitabul umm is world famous.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">He breathed his last at Fustat in Egypt in 204 AH/820 AC.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">We shall learn the life history of Imam Shafiye (R) and be able to tell it.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">We shall be inspired by his knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">The world famous Wali (friend of Allah, saint).</sent>
				<sent id ="355">Hazrat Muyeenuddin Chishty (R) was born at the village of San jar-in Sisten of Iran in 537 AH.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">His father's name is Khawaja Ghyasuddin (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="357">He is known by the titles Aftab-e-Hind (Sun of India) Sultanul Hind (Spiritual Emperor of India) Gharib Newaz (compassionate for the poor).</sent>
				<sent id ="358">The qualities of noble character were evident even in his childhood.</sent>
				<sent id ="359">He memorized the Holy Quran at the age of nine years.</sent>
				<sent id ="360">After that he attained proficiency in different branches of Islamic knowledge including Tafsir (commentary on the Quran), Hadith and Fiqh.</sent>
				<sent id ="361">He came in contact with famous Wali Uthman Haruni (R) and stayed with him for a long period of time.</sent>
				<sent id ="362">He attained the highest spiritual knowledge (Marifat).</sent>
				<sent id ="363">According to the directives of his guide he travelled different countries preaching Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="364">He took leave of his guide and arrived at Madina via Makka Sharif.</sent>
				<sent id ="365">Afterwards he started for India.</sent>
				<sent id ="366">At that time, India was under the oppressive Hindu rulers.</sent>
				<sent id ="367">So he at first arrived at Delhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="368">Thereafter he came to Ajmeer and stayed there.</sent>
				<sent id ="369">At his call, people in multitude were converted to Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="370">As a result, the Hindu king of that area, being afraid of losing his kingdom started oppressing Muyeenuddin Chishty and his followers in various ways.</sent>
				<sent id ="371">But none of his tactics was of any avail against the supernatural power (karamat) of Muyeenuddin Chishty.</sent>
				<sent id ="372">On the contrary, the number of the followers of Muyeenuddin Chishty (R) was increasing day by day.</sent>
				<sent id ="373">After that Muyeenuddin Chishty (R) began to preach Islam independently.</sent>
				<sent id ="374">Lakhs of non-Muslims accepted Islam owing to his preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="375">The Muslims gave up shirk, bidat (innovation) and all other superstitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="376">They became clean and pure Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="377">His contribution towards the spread of Islam in India will remain forever in golden letters.</sent>
				<sent id ="378">Hazrat Muyeenuddin Chishty (R) was blessed with all the good qualities of character.</sent>
				<sent id ="379">He used to love the poor and distressed people.</sent>
				<sent id ="380">Innumerable helpless, poor and shelterless people would stay at his place.</sent>
				<sent id ="381">Anisul Arwah is his famous book.</sent>
				<sent id ="382">The great saint Hazrat Muyeenuddin Chishty (R) breathed his last in 633 AH.</sent>
				<sent id ="383">He was buried in Ajmeer near his Khanqah (place of meditation).</sent>
				<sent id ="384">Muyeenuddin Chishty (R) has left behind him an exemplary ideal for preaching and spread of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="385">We shall follow his ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="386">He was born in Bukhara of present day Uzbekistan Republic.</sent>
				<sent id ="387">His father was a famous Islamic scholar.</sent>
				<sent id ="388">Gifted with extra-ordinary genius Abu Tawama (R) attained proficiency in different branches of Islamic studies including Quran, Hadith and Fiqh.</sent>
				<sent id ="389">He earned the reputation specially in the commentaries of Bukhari Sharif, the famous book on Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="390">Even after completing his studies in his own country, Abu Tawama's thirst for acquiring knowledge was not quenched.</sent>
				<sent id ="391">So he went to Khurasan in Iran.</sent>
				<sent id ="392">There he pursued higher studies in various subjects along with Islamic Studies.</sent>
				<sent id ="393">In a short while, his fame spread throughout every comer.</sent>
				<sent id ="394">After the completion of his studies, Abu Tawama (R) engaged himself in disseminating education and preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="395">He arrived in Delhi from Khurasan travelling through different places.</sent>
				<sent id ="396">There he established a mosque and a Madrasha attached to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="397">He began teaching Islamic studies including Quran and Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="398">Within a short time students from far-flung areas began to gather there for pursuing knowledge.</sent>
				<sent id ="399">The ruler of Delhi at that time, Sultan Ghyasuddin Balban was religious minded man.</sent>
				<sent id ="400">He became charmed by the fame of Abu Tawama (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="401">Occasionally he himself attended his institution for Study.</sent>
				<sent id ="402">The fame and honour of Abu Tawama (R) created envy in the minds of some wicked people.</sent>
				<sent id ="403">They began giving evil counsel to the Sultan.</sent>
				<sent id ="404">They branded as a rival to Sultan's throne.</sent>
				<sent id ="405">At last the Sultan asked him to leave Delhi.</sent>
				<sent id ="406">He started for Sonargaon, the capital of East Bengal at that time.</sent>
				<sent id ="407">He arrived at Sonargaon in 668 AH. and set up a big Madrasah.</sent>
				<sent id ="408">He started teaching there.</sent>
				<sent id ="409">Within a short period the name and fame of the Madrasah spread all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="410">Students began to flock there.</sent>
				<sent id ="411">The ruler of Sonargaon at that time was Ghyasuddin Azam Shah.</sent>
				<sent id ="412">Being charmed with Abu Tawama (R) he co-operated with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="413">His Madrasah was just like a modern Islamic university.</sent>
				<sent id ="414">Sheikh Abu Tawama possessed vast knowledge of the Quran and Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="415">Besides he was an expert in other subjects too.</sent>
				<sent id ="416">He established laboratory, Khanqa (place of meditation), langar Khana (place where food is distributed in charity), mosque and training centre.</sent>
				<sent id ="417">In that training centre, arrangement was made for making the learners self-dependent.</sent>
				<sent id ="418">One student of this institution, Sharafuddin Yahya Muneri got the reputation of the greatest shcolar of that age.</sent>
				<sent id ="419">Besides being an expert in different branches of knowledge and a wise man, he was also a saint and spiritual devotee.</sent>
				<sent id ="420">The foundation of Islamic education and culture was strengthened owing to his untiring efforts.</sent>
				<sent id ="421">He breathed his last in 700 AH. at Sonargaon.</sent>
				<sent id ="422">We shall learn the life history of Hazrat Sheikh Abu Tawama (R) and be inspired by his endeavours in the pursuit of knowledge and preaching.</sent>
				<sent id ="423">We shall engage ourselves in the dissemination of knowledge and preaching of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="424">Maulana Karamat Ali Jaunpuri (R) was one of the preachers of Islam in Indian subcontinent.</sent>
				<sent id ="425">He was a lineal of Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddiq (Ra).</sent>
				<sent id ="426">He was born of a respectable Muslim family at Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh of India in 1215 AH.</sent>
				<sent id ="427">His father Abu Ibrahim Sheikh Muhammad Imam Bakhsh was a religious leader of the area.</sent>
				<sent id ="428">He had extra-ordinary knowledge in Arabic, Urdu, Persian etc languages.</sent>
				<sent id ="429">He earned proficiency in many branches of knowledge including Quran, Hadith, and Fiqh.</sent>
				<sent id ="430">At a very early age, the fame of his noble character, oratory and devotion to knowledge spread all around.</sent>
				<sent id ="431">He felt sorry for the Muslims seeing that they were involved in various superstitions and un-Islamic conduct and behavior.</sent>
				<sent id ="432">He began to think about removal of these evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="433">So from his student life he used to visit, during leisure hours, the houses of Muslims for preaching Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="434">He taught them Salat, Sawm etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="435">He urged upon them to give up the rites and customs of non-Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="436">He preached Islam at first in Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Azamgarh and Faizabad area.</sent>
				<sent id ="437">By establishing many mosques, madrasahs, maktabs in these places, he arranged for making the people pure Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="438">After that he travelled for fifty-one years vast areas including Assam, East Bengal, Kolkata and West Bengal.</sent>
				<sent id ="439">He went door to door of the Muslims in these areas and preached Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="440">His all- pervading preaching for such a long period resulted in a revival of Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="441">They were being free from Shirk, bidat and various superstitions.</sent>
				<sent id ="442">People of Assam and Bengal at that time were accustomed to un-Islamic culture,- customs and costumes.</sent>
				<sent id ="443">He went from door to door of the Muslims and urged upon them to adopt Islamic conduct and character giving up the condemnable culture.</sent>
				<sent id ="444">He preached Islam in various parts of present day Bangladesh including Dhaka, Chittagong, Noakhali, Faridpur and Barisal.</sent>
				<sent id ="445">In these areas he established innumerable mosques and madrasahs.</sent>
				<sent id ="446">He wrote many valuable books.</sent>
				<sent id ="447">His book Miftahul Jannat is warmly received by all.</sent>
				<sent id ="448">Travelling throughtout Bangladesh, he, at one time arrived at Rangpur town.</sent>
				<sent id ="449">Here he breathed his last on 3rd Rabiutthani Friday in 1290 AH.</sent>
				<sent id ="450">We shall follow his ideal.</sent>
				<sent id ="451">We shall observe Islamic culture and conventions.</sent>
				<sent id ="452">We shall keep aloof from condemnable culture and superstitions.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
