<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-islam-4</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.1</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">358</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">4010</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1297</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t178">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">Akhlaq is plural of the word Khuluqun .</sent>
				<sent id ="2">It means character or nature.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">Man's activity through his conduct, demeanour and nature is known as Akhlaq.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Every aspect of man's character is included in Akhlaq.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">Even the dealings of man with any living being or creature of Allah is also included in Akhlaq.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">Aklhlaq Hamida : Good character is called Akhlaq Hamida or praiseworthy character e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">forgiveness, turstworthiness, honesty, truthfulness, righteousness, benevolence, modesty, cooperation in good deeds etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">Akhlaq Zamima : Vile character is called Akhlaq Zamima or condemnable character e.g. telling a lie, abusing, stealing etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The importance of Akhlaq Hamida in human life is limitless.</sent>
				<sent id ="10">Man's peace and happiness in this world depend on Akhlaq Hamida or praiseworthy character.</sent>
				<sent id ="11">Happiness and sorrow in hereafter also depend on Akhlaq Hamida.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Pleasure of Allah and His Prophet (Sm) can be attained through possessing praiseworthy character.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said, the most beloved person amongst you to me is one whose character is the best.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">Noble character makes a man's Iman complete.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said- Meaning : Full believers (Mumins) are those whose characters are noble and most beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">A man with noble character attains the highest status with Allah, His Prophet and society.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said - The best amongst you is the one with the best character.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Allah will grant salvation from the fire of Jahannam to the man with noble character for the good quality of his character.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">The great Prophet (Sm) said, The fire of Jahannam will not consume a man whose shape and character are beautiful.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">Meaning and kinds of Akhlaq.</sent>
				<sent id ="21">Importance and good effects of good character.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">We shall possess noble character and shall build ideal and beautiful society.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Our lives will be successful.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">Forgiveness means to pardon, not to take revenge.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">In the Islamic terminology, forgiving a guilty man personally in spite of having the power to take revenge is called forgivness.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">Forgiveness is a special attribute of Allah Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Allah Almighty has blessed man with many graces.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">He has provided for their peace and happiness.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">But man forgets Allah due to ignorace.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">Man disobeys His commandments and takes others as partners of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">After that, when they realize their mistake, become penitent and pray for His forgiveness, He forgives them.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">Allah says, He is the One that accepts repentance from His servants and forgives sins.</sent>
				<sent id ="33">Our beloved Prophet (Sm) was a symbol of forgivensess.</sent>
				<sent id ="34">Commanding him-for forgiveness, Allah says, Hold to forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">He iollowed this commandment of Allah in a befitting manner.</sent>
				<sent id ="36">After the victory of Khaybar, one Jewess invited him and offered him mutton mixed with poison.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">Taking some mutton he felt the effect of poison.</sent>
				<sent id ="38">That woman confessed that she had mixed poison with the mutton.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Even after that the Merciful Prophet (Sm) forgave her.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">After the victory of Makka, the Prophet (Sm) forgave his perpetual enemies.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">He addressed them saying, I have no complaint against you today .</sent>
				<sent id ="42">You are free, independent.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">Such instance in the history of the world is rare.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">The importance of forgiveness is manifold.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The offender becomes repentant when forgiven, he becomes ashamed of himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">He becomes grateful to the forgiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Allah Almighty also enhances the status of the forgiver.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">Allah Almighty says, If a person forgives and makes reconciliation, his reward is due from Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Meaning and good effects of forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The instances of forgiveness by the Great Prophet (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="51">We shall be embodiments of forgiveness and forgive the guilty.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Doing good to others means to be benevolent to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">Technically, to fulfill in the best manner the responsibilities and duties of men towards the creatures of Allah is called doing good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Benevolence is a great attribute of Allah Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">He has great benevolence and compassion towards all His creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">He is kind to allbelievers and unbelievers.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">He did not create all men with equal capacity and competence.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">For this reason men are mutually dependent.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">Hence men should help others according to his capacity and ability.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">Attainment of Allah's pleasure Allah loves those who do good to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">He says Meaning: Do good, for Allah loves those who do good.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">Peace-tranquility is established in society through benevolence.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">Benevolence can be done to others through spending of wealth or through saying good words.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">This removes conflicts and quarrels in society and peace is established.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">Through benevolence the heart of a cruel man can be won over.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">Arch enemy can be made a friend.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">Allah bestows mercy on the person showing kindness to any of His creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">(Abu Dawood and Termizi) We shall do good to the creatures of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">We shall inquire after wellbeing of others during danger and disaster.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">For this, Allah will be pleased with us.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">We shall be blessed with His grace.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">Decency means politeness, modesty and bashfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">To adopt refined manner in conduct, dress and conversation is called decency.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">Decency is of limitless importance.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">It is a noble trait of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Decency dissuades men from indecent and improper acts.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">It helps making a man a loyal servant of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">Safety from many accidents is possible if men and women keep decency in their conduct and dresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Indecent dress and conduct often causes disaster, creates unrest in the society and causes decadence of character.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">As a result men become allured to bad character.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">Friendship and cordiality grows through decent and amiable conduct.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">Indecent conduct drives even friends away.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">Man avoids contact with indecent man.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">Indecent man is hateful to Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said, The worst person to Allah is one who is avoided by people for his indecency.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">(Bukhari) The Holy Prophet (Sm) further said, Meaning : Verily Allah abhors a man with indecent and bad character.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">We shall realize the importance of decency.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">We shall maintain decency in every aspect of our lives.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">As a result our lives will be decent.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Decent environment will be created in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">Service to the creatures means to serve all the creatures of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Allah Almighty has created everything in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">He cherishes everything.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">To be attentive and careful to the creation of Allah is called service to the creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Man is the best creation of Allah in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Therefore they have great responsibilities and duties to all creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">Man is the brother of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">So he is to be kind to the hungry, thirsty or needy.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">His wants are to be mitigated by all means.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">For this Allah Almighty will be pleased and will give reward for it in hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The Muslim who donates food to a hungry Muslim, Allah will grant him fruit in Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">The Muslim who offers water to a thirsty Muslim, Allah will quench his thirst by pure drinks from sealed container.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Many orphans, poor and destitute are there in our society.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">Those who are kind to these poor and needy persons, Allah becomes pleased with them.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Allah Almighty says- Meaning : And they feed for the love of Allah, the destitute, the orphan and the captive.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">If anybody in society is ill, he is to be nursed.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">If anybody runs into debt, steps should be taken to pay off his debt.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">If the Muslim brother is helped in this manner, help from Allah will be there.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">The Holy Prophet (Sm) said, Allah fulfills the need of the Muslim who fulfills the need of another Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">Responsibility does not end by service to man alone.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">Man has responsibility to animals, birds, insects, trees, creepers etc. as well.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">Because our environment consists of all these things.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">We in our own interest should preserve this environment.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Moreover no creation of Allah is useless.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">He created everything for our benefit.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">Our beloved Prophet (Sm) was kind to everything in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">Encouraging us to be kind to all creatures, he said- All creatures are Allah's near ones (dependents).</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The man who is kind to them is best loved by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">The cattle, poultry, cats-dogs, all animals are subject to hunger and thirst as ourselves.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">It is our responsibility to feed them.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">The Great Prophet (Sm) said, One woman kept a cat tied.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">She did neither feed it, nor did she set it free so that it could live on insects.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">At last the cat died in that tied position out of starvation.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Allah Almighty punished that woman for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">The Great Prophet (Sm) further said, a sinner woman of Bani Israil (Jewess) offered water to a dog afflicted by thirst.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">As a result Allah was pleased and forgave her.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">We should be kind to trees as well along with the animals.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">No tree should be cut or no leaf should be torn unnecessarily, because trees also recite Tasbih (glorify Allah).</sent>
				<sent id ="129">We shall serve the creation.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">We should not cause their suffering.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">We shall plant tree and preserve them.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">Vie shall not damage any tree unnecessarily.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">Trust means to deposit.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">To keep someone's money or valuables in custody is called Trust.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">The man who carefully keeps the deposited wealth and returns it to the owner is called Amanatdar or trusted.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">Misappropriation of deposited wealth is called khianat-breach of trust.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">He who misappropriates is called khianatkari.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">The necessity of trust in human life is manifold.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">The duty of each man is a sacred trust with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">Children are trusts in the hands of parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">To rear them up and the to educate them is the responsibility of the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">A shop is a trust of its owner in the hands of its employee.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Furniture of education institution and books of the library are trust in the hands of the students.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">Education and character building of the students is a sacred trust in the hands of the teachers.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">Wealth of the country is a trust of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">A department is a trust deposited with each of its employees.</sent>
				<sent id ="147">The government is a trustee of the whole country.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">To protect trust is absolutely necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">Allah Almighty says in the glorious Quran- Meaning: Allah commands you to render back your trusts to those to whom they are due.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">Breach of trust is a contemptible offence.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">The Holy Prophet (Sm) described it as a sign of hypocrites.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Trust will have to be accounted for before Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said- You all are responsible and each of you will be interrogated for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">We shall realize the necessity of trust.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">We shall keep trust in every sphere of life and shall fulfill our responsibilities with trust.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">Any activity related to earning, welfare of mankind and service to the creatures is called labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Labour is the key to development and good fortune.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">The nation which is more hard working is more developed.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">The dignity of labour is very high in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">Allah says- Meaning : That man can have nothing but what he strives for.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">To earn by labour is an Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">The great Prophet (Sm) said Meaning : After farz Ibadat, earning of lawful livelihood is another farz Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">Allah Almighty has kept open innumerable wealth for the welfare of mankind.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">To procure this wealth labour is necessary.</sent>
				<sent id ="165">We have got, by the Grace of Allah, naturally the factors of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="166">These are our hand, leg and brain.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">These are the labour forces.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">Our beloved Prophet (Sm) loved labour and was himself used to labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">He tended animals in his boyhood and traded when grown up.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">He took active part in digging the trench in the Battle of trench.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">As a result, the rope spotted her chest.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">She used to sweep for which her clothes were soiled.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">Of the status of labourer, the great Prophet said- Meaning : Earner of livelihood by labour is a friend of Allah (Baihaqi).</sent>
				<sent id ="174">The great Prophet (Sm) further said, There is no food better than the one earned by own hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">The Prophet of Allah Dawood (As) used to eat food earned by his own hands.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">(Bukhari) One day, the companions asked the Prophet (Sm) : which is the best earning?</sent>
				<sent id ="177">The Prophet (Sm) said in answer The remuneration of the work of own hand and the profit earned from honest business.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">(Ahmed) The greatest of mankind, the Prophet (Sm) and his companions never felt shy of earning their lifelihood through labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">They left for us a brilliant model of dignity of labour.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">Commanding us He said- And when the prayer is finished, dispere through the land and seek of the Bounty of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">Islam commands to pay wage of the labourer immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said, Pay the wage of the labourer before his sweat dries up.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">We shall be accustomed to recognize the dignity of labour and learn to do by ourselves our jobs.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">We shall be self-reliant.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">Truthfulness means to speak the truth, justice, honesty.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">To follow justice in all activities, conversation, transaction, in a word, in every aspect of life is called truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">Speaking the truth, treading the right path, doing justice, keeping promises and trusts, avoiding deceit all are included in truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">Truthfulness is a noble quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">The peace and happiness of human life, security and social order mainly depend on truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">The Prophets attracted the attention of people by their quality of truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The great Prophet (Sm) earned respect of all even before his Prophethood due to this quality.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">Truthfulness makes a man Allah fearing.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">Just man remains conscious of right and wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">Honest businessman does not adulterate in goods and does not conceal the defects.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">Honest employee does not evade his duty.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">Honest person does not deceive or cheat.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Truthfulness protects man from danger and makes him successful.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">(Bukhari and Muslim) A truthful man earns trust and respect of all due to his truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">Even his enemies trust him.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">We shall realize the importance and significance of truthfulness.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">We shall observe truthfulness and lead our lives honestly.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Righteous deeds include good conduct, speaking of truth, service and everything relating to welfare.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">Cooperation in good deeds may be done through genuine well wishing, verbal support, physical labour and financial help.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">As for example to help the crippled and destitute and to establish organization for making them self-sufficient.</sent>
				<sent id ="205">Allah Almighty says in the Holy Quran Meaning: And help one another in righteousness and piety.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">The advent of the Muslims is for cooperation in righteous activities and restraining sinful activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="207">Allah says, you are the best of peoples, evolved for mankind, enjoining what is right, forbidding what is wrong.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">Co-operation in righteous activities brings equal reward with the performer.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said Meaning : He who shows the path of good deed, will get equal reward with its performer.</sent>
				<sent id ="210">And whoever behaved well with the family of a Mujahid during his absence (will be treated) as if he himself participated in Jihad.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">In a society, there are good people as well as bad people.</sent>
				<sent id ="212">These bad people indulge in evil deeds, created unrest and disorder in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">They are enemies of the society and the country.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">It will not be proper to cooperate in any of a their activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Allah Almighty says- Meaning: But do not help one another in sin and rancour.</sent>
				<sent id ="216">If any one commits a crime, he is to be prevented immediately.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">Otherwise other people may follow him in committing it.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">The great Prophet (Sm) said, whenever you see anybody committing a misdeed, you prevent him with hands (power).</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Good effects of co-operation in righteous deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">Evil effects of co-operation in evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">We shall cooperate in good deeds, and shall never cooperate in evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">We shall try heart and soul to prevent those who indulge in evil deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="223">Condemnable character defiles individual and social life.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">Nobody likes or respects a person with this type of character.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">He is despised and cursed in this world as well as in hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said, A servant reaches the lowest layer of Jahannam due to his bad character.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">Envy means jealousy, malice.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">To dislike other's wealth or honour and to wish for its extinction is called envy.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">As for example, to wish the ruin of the wealthy, to be jealous of a persons success or high status and to wish its ruin.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Evil effects Envy is a dangerous mental disease.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">There are many evil effects of envy.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">The first sin after the creation of man was due to envy.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">Iblis (Saitan) became envious of the status of Hazrat Adam (As).</sent>
				<sent id ="234">As a result he was cursed and removed from the mercy of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">Qabil, son of Adam (As) killed his own brother Habil due to this envy.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Envy eats up the good deeds of man.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">Meaning : Envy destroys virtue as fire bums firewood into ashes.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">(Ibn majah) Envy enkindles fire of anxiety in human mind.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">The envious man himself is burnt by this fire.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">Envious man is despised by men as well as by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">Nobody likes him, None charishes his friendship.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">Everyone boycotts him.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">Envy creates enmity among man.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">It gives rise to chaos, conflict and fighting.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Society becomes restless.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Envy creates pride in human mind and this pride is the root of fall.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Allah loves him who is free from envy.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">He will get into Jannat easily.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">Once the Prophet of Allah (Sm) spoke of a companion as a man of Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="250">He was asked about his deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="251">He answered, I do not envy a man blessed by Allah with a good thing.</sent>
				<sent id ="252">We shall be conscious about envy.</sent>
				<sent id ="253">We shall not envy anyone.</sent>
				<sent id ="254">Thus our mind will remain delighted and peace and order will prevail in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="255">Anger means, wrath, fury.</sent>
				<sent id ="256">The fury created in the mind of a man due to loss of interest or desire for retaliation is called anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="257">Pride, scolding, quarrel etc. are the causes of anger.</sent>
				<sent id ="258">Anger is a condemnable trait.</sent>
				<sent id ="259">Anger creates envy and enmity among man.</sent>
				<sent id ="260">Envy destroys the good deeds of a man.</sent>
				<sent id ="261">Often anger causes the loss of the knowledge of differentaiting good and evil.</sent>
				<sent id ="262">Angry man cannot control himself.</sent>
				<sent id ="263">Anger becomes the cause of great loss when it exceed limits.</sent>
				<sent id ="264">This leads to many mishaps.</sent>
				<sent id ="265">Anger destroys Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="266">The Great Prophet (Sm) said, As vinegar destroys honey, similarly anger destroys Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="267">By controlling anger one can escape from Allah's wrath.</sent>
				<sent id ="268">Eminent Companion Hazrat Ibn Umar (Ra) wanted to know what deed could protect him from the wrath of Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="269">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said, you shall not be angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="270">(Tabarani) To control anger is a virtuous deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="271">One companion said O Prophet of Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="272">Direct me about a good deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="273">The Prophet (Sm) said, you shall not be angry.</sent>
				<sent id ="274">(Bukhari) Contr of anger is a heroic deed.</sent>
				<sent id ="275">We shall realize the evil effects of anger, we shall avoid anger, so that we live happily.</sent>
				<sent id ="276">Peace will prevail in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="277">Greed means lust, covetousness.</sent>
				<sent id ="278">Desire for getting more and more is called greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="279">Greed may be of different kind e.g.</sent>
				<sent id ="280">greed for wealth, greed for status, greed for food, greed for clothes etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="281">Evil Effects Greed destroys peace of mind, Greedy man instead of being satisfied with what he has becomes restless to get more and more.</sent>
				<sent id ="282">Man indulges in many criminal activites due to greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="283">Dacoity, robbery, black marketing, hoarding, hijacking, adulteration, taking interest, bribe etc criminal activities occur due to greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="284">Man eats more due to greed for good as a result of which he suffers from various diseases.</sent>
				<sent id ="285">Sometimes it leads even to death.</sent>
				<sent id ="286">A proverb says, Greed causes sin, sin causes death.</sent>
				<sent id ="287">Patience and contentment can save us from greed.</sent>
				<sent id ="288">It is possible to control greed if simple and straight path of life is led.</sent>
				<sent id ="289">The principal way of controlling greed is belief in taqdir-destiny.</sent>
				<sent id ="290">The Holy Prophet said, O mankind!</sent>
				<sent id ="291">You seek in the best way, because man will not get more than what is allotted to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="292">(Hakim) We shall learn the evil effects of greed and avoid it.</sent>
				<sent id ="293">We shall believe in destiny.</sent>
				<sent id ="294">We shall be satisfied with what we have, we shall be happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="295">Cheating means, deception, deceit, to swindle.</sent>
				<sent id ="296">To deceive somebody by conversation, conduct, transaction, business etc. is called cheating.</sent>
				<sent id ="297">Breach of promise, selling of articles concealing the defects etc. are instances of grave cheating.</sent>
				<sent id ="298">Cheating is a social crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="299">People in the society face difficulties, peace and discipline of society is lost for it.</sent>
				<sent id ="300">Man's life becomes unbearable.</sent>
				<sent id ="301">A cheat is not a real Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="302">Once the Prophet of Allah (Sm) went a market.</sent>
				<sent id ="303">He saw a huge heap of foodstuff.</sent>
				<sent id ="304">The surface of the heap was dry.</sent>
				<sent id ="305">To examine whether the interior was also dry, he put his hand inside it.</sent>
				<sent id ="306">It was found that the interior was wet.</sent>
				<sent id ="307">The great Prophet (Sm) wanted to know its cause.</sent>
				<sent id ="308">The owner stated that rain caused it.</sent>
				<sent id ="309">Then the Prophet (Sm) further said- Meaning: Whoever cheats, is not from amongst us.</sent>
				<sent id ="310">(Tirmizi) Cheating is an act of hypocrites-Munafiqs.</sent>
				<sent id ="311">The punishment of Munafiq is very severe.</sent>
				<sent id ="312">Real mumin never takes resort to deception.</sent>
				<sent id ="313">He never breaks his promise.</sent>
				<sent id ="314">He never cheats people.</sent>
				<sent id ="315">We shall realize the evil effects of cheating.</sent>
				<sent id ="316">We shall never indulge in it.</sent>
				<sent id ="317">Thus peace will be established in society.</sent>
				<sent id ="318">Forcible snatching away of other's wealth is called Hijacking.</sent>
				<sent id ="319">Hijacking is a social crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="320">Hijacking destroys the peace and order of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="321">It disturbs the security of the society.</sent>
				<sent id ="322">Normal life of man is distrubed as a result of it.</sent>
				<sent id ="323">Men do not feel secure to travel with money or valuable things.</sent>
				<sent id ="324">It creates havoc in society and state.</sent>
				<sent id ="325">A hijacker does not remain a real Muslim.</sent>
				<sent id ="326">The Great Prophet (Sm) said The man who robs and hijacks publicly in front of the people, does not remain Mumin.</sent>
				<sent id ="327">Hijacking is a trait of barbarous age.</sent>
				<sent id ="328">In order to uproot this barbarous act.</sent>
				<sent id ="329">Islam declares- Meaning : In Islam there is no scope for being harmed or causing harm to others.</sent>
				<sent id ="330">The punishment for such crime is very severe in Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="331">In the Glorious Quran Allah Almighty gave an account of exemplary punishment for havoc-creating crimes like hijacking, dacoity, looting etc.</sent>
				<sent id ="332">We shall realize the evil effects of hijacking.</sent>
				<sent id ="333">We shall fefrain from such heinous act.</sent>
				<sent id ="334">We shall try our best to prevent those who indulge in such activity .</sent>
				<sent id ="335">Disobedience to the parents means not to follow the biddings of the parents, to defy their orders.</sent>
				<sent id ="336">After the kindness of Allah, the kindness of the parents of their children is the highest.</sent>
				<sent id ="337">They are the nearest persons of the offspring.</sent>
				<sent id ="338">The children are reared up with love and affection by the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="339">They make the highest sacrifice for the comfort of their children.</sent>
				<sent id ="340">They provide everything for the future development of their children.</sent>
				<sent id ="341">So it is the duty of the children to be obedient to the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="342">To disobey the parents is a heinous crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="343">It has many demerits: Disobedience to the parents is the most serious sin after shirk.</sent>
				<sent id ="344">Disobedience to the parents is such an awful sin that Allah Almighty Himself do'es not forgive this sin:</sent>
				<sent id ="345">Disobedient to the parents will be burnt in blazing fire of Jahannam in hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="346">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said, They (parents) are your Jannat and Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="347">(Ibn Majah) In other words, as entry into Jannat depends on parents pleasure, similarly their displeasure will cause the entry of the children into Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="348">The Holy- Prophet (Sm) further said utter ruin to him, utter ruin to him.</sent>
				<sent id ="349">He was asked who that man was.</sent>
				<sent id ="350">Allah Almighty has declared disobedience to the mother as haram strictly prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="351">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said, Meaning: Allah Almighty has forbidden the disobedience to mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="352">If the father is displeased with the child Allah Almighty also becomes displeased with him.</sent>
				<sent id ="353">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said, Allah's pleasure lies in the pleasure of father and displeasure of Allah lies in the displeasure of father.</sent>
				<sent id ="354">Sometimes the parents chastise their children for the welfare of the latter.</sent>
				<sent id ="355">The child should tolerate it.</sent>
				<sent id ="356">This will bring happiness to him in future.</sent>
				<sent id ="357">We shall abide by the commands and prohibition of the parents.</sent>
				<sent id ="358">As a result they will be pleased and Allah also will be pleased.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
