<!DOCTYPE TEI PUBLIC '-//TEI//DTD TEI XML ver. 1' 'http://dtd.hucompute.org/tei_all.dtd'>
<TEI xml:id="TEd1">
	<teiHeader>
		<fileDesc>
			<description>Readability corpus from English textbooks</description>
			<titleStmt>
				<title>8-islam-3</title>
			</titleStmt>
			<publicationStmt>
				<idno type="Timestamp">2014-10-30 12:56:03.068</idno>
				<idno type="Number of sentences">249</idno>
				<idno type="Number of tokens">2890</idno>
				<idno type="Number of token types">1031</idno>
				<idno type="Readability level">medium</idno>
				<idno type="Language">English</idno>
			</publicationStmt>
			<sourceDesc>
				<p>Name: API-Corpus; Source: API</p>
			</sourceDesc>
		</fileDesc>
	</teiHeader>
	<text xml:id="t177">
		<body xml:id="b1">
			<div xml:id="xd1_di1">
				<sent id ="1">The Glorious Quran is the message of Allah Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="2">This is the last and the greatest of revealed Books.</sent>
				<sent id ="3">The other revealed Books were revealed for specific area and specific groups of men.</sent>
				<sent id ="4">Its effectiveness was terminated after the specified time was over.</sent>
				<sent id ="5">But the Glorious Quran was revealed for the whole world for all time.</sent>
				<sent id ="6">It guides men to the path of peace.</sent>
				<sent id ="7">It brings men from darkness to light.</sent>
				<sent id ="8">To follow Quranic directions is obligatory for all.</sent>
				<sent id ="9">The Glorious Quran was revealed to our beloved Prophet Hazrat Muhammad (Sm).</sent>
				<sent id ="10">At first it was preserved in Lawh Mahfuz (Tablet preserved).</sent>
				<sent id ="11">It was revealed from it as a whole first to Baitul Izzah in the first sky on Lailatul Qadr in the month of Ramadan.</sent>
				<sent id ="12">Hazrat Muhammad (Sm) before his prophethood used to remain in meditation in the cave of Hera searching for truth.</sent>
				<sent id ="13">He was bestowed with prophethood.</sent>
				<sent id ="14">At that time he was forty.</sent>
				<sent id ="15">Different portions of the Quran were being revealed according to the need of mankind in different context and circumstances.</sent>
				<sent id ="16">Whenever a part of the Quran was revealed, the Great Prophet (Sm) himself committed it to memory.</sent>
				<sent id ="17">He used to direct his companions to memorize it.</sent>
				<sent id ="18">Those companions who knew the art of writing used to remain always with the PrQphet.</sent>
				<sent id ="19">Whenever a part of the Quran was revealed, they used t9 write it down.</sent>
				<sent id ="20">The principal writer was Zaid Ibn Thabit (Ra.)</sent>
				<sent id ="21">The writing materials were scarce.</sent>
				<sent id ="22">Paper was not easily available.</sent>
				<sent id ="23">Therefore the Quran was writting down on small pieces of stone, skin, bones and branches of date palm.</sent>
				<sent id ="24">At the command of the Prophet of Allah (8m) many companions committed the Glorious Quran to memory.</sent>
				<sent id ="25">Thus it was preserved in the same form as it was revealed.</sent>
				<sent id ="26">No alteration or change took place in a single verse or even a letter.</sent>
				<sent id ="27">Allah Almighty says Meaning : We have, without doubt, sent down the message and We will assuredly guard it.</sent>
				<sent id ="28">Many Hafizes (who memorize the Quran) were martyred.</sent>
				<sent id ="29">He coIiected different parts of the Quran preserved in writing with different companions.</sent>
				<sent id ="30">He also sought help from Hafizes of the Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="31">Thus he prepared a correct and authentic manuscript of the Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="32">This manuscript was kept in safe custody with Hazrat Abu Bakr (Ra) and thereafter with Hazrat Umar (Ra).</sent>
				<sent id ="33">After the latter's martyrdom, it was placed in the custody of Ummul Muminin Hazrat Hafsa (Ra).</sent>
				<sent id ="34">As a result, the unity of Muslim Ummah was about to be threatened.</sent>
				<sent id ="35">In these circumstances Hazrat Uthman (Ra) after consultation with prominent companions, formed a committee under the leadership of Hazrat Zaid Ibn Thabit (Ra).</sent>
				<sent id ="36">After that one copy each was sent to different provinces.</sent>
				<sent id ="37">It is for this contribution of Hazrat Uthman (Ra) in the preservation of the Quran that he is called Jamiul Quran (the collector of Quran).</sent>
				<sent id ="38">Introduction to the Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="39">Briefhistory of preservation and compilation of the Glorious Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="40">Tajwid means to arrange, to place in an orderly manner, to beautify.</sent>
				<sent id ="41">Makhraj means place of pronunciation and Sifat is specific mode of pronunciation of letters.</sent>
				<sent id ="42">Knowledge of Tajwid is essential for reciting the Glorious Quran correctly.</sent>
				<sent id ="43">To recite the Quran with Tajwid is commanded by Allah Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="44">Allah says- Meaning: And recite the Quran in slow, measured rhythmic tones.</sent>
				<sent id ="45">The merits of reciting the Quran are limitless.</sent>
				<sent id ="46">On reciting the Quran at least ten virtues (rewards) are earned for every letter.</sent>
				<sent id ="47">Reciting of the Quran is the best of all Nafl (additional) Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="48">The Holy Prophet (Sm) said, Reciting of the Quran is the most valuable Ibadat.</sent>
				<sent id ="49">Recite the Quran, because it will intercede in the day of Judgement for the person reciting it.</sent>
				<sent id ="50">The man, for whom the Glorious Quran will intercede, will definitely enter Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="51">Meaning of Tajwid and its necessity.</sent>
				<sent id ="52">Merits of reciting the Quran correctly.</sent>
				<sent id ="53">We shall everyday recite the Quran correctly and try to understand the meanmg.</sent>
				<sent id ="54">Madd is an Arabic word.</sent>
				<sent id ="55">Its dictionary meaning is to lengthen, to prolong.</sent>
				<sent id ="56">In technical sense the right hand letter with vowel point (harkat) of a letter of'madd' with a prolonged tone is called madd.</sent>
				<sent id ="57">Zer, Zabar and Pesh are called vowel points-harkat.</sent>
				<sent id ="58">s to stop, to pause.</sent>
				<sent id ="59">In technical meaning of Tajwid, the time of interval between two breaths is called waqf.</sent>
				<sent id ="60">At the time of waqf, the last letter with vowel point will have to be read with Jazm.</sent>
				<sent id ="61">To recite the last letter with vowel point without giving it Jazm is prohibited.</sent>
				<sent id ="62">If pause is necessary before the sign of waqf (punctuation mark) is there during recitation of a verse, then pause is permissible.</sent>
				<sent id ="63">But the word on which pause was made will have to be repeated in the recitation.</sent>
				<sent id ="64">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) used to pause after each verse at the time of reciting Sura Fatiha.</sent>
				<sent id ="65">This is called waqf Mujawwaz.</sent>
				<sent id ="66">It is better not to stop here.</sent>
				<sent id ="67">This is called waqf murakhkhas.</sent>
				<sent id ="68">It is better to continue without pause.</sent>
				<sent id ="69">There is difference of opinion about the pause here, better not to stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="70">This is an indication of pause.</sent>
				<sent id ="71">To stop here is better.</sent>
				<sent id ="72">This indicates not to stop.</sent>
				<sent id ="73">It is not permissible to stop here.</sent>
				<sent id ="74">This is called Sakta.</sent>
				<sent id ="75">At this mark slight pause is there, but the breath should not be taken afresh.</sent>
				<sent id ="76">Allah Almighty has blessed us with many graces.</sent>
				<sent id ="77">Of his innumerable graces the grace of the Holy Quran is one of the best.</sent>
				<sent id ="78">There are many merits of the recitation of the Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="79">Whoever recites the Glorious Quran and acts accordingly, Allah Almighty will grant him great honour and status in hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="80">His parents will be honoured with a crown, which will be brighter than the light of the sun.</sent>
				<sent id ="81">In this class students will learn to recite correctly looking at the Quran from the fifth Ruku (section) to the eighth Ruku of Sura Baqara.</sent>
				<sent id ="82">At first the teacher will recite.</sent>
				<sent id ="83">After that the student will recite.</sent>
				<sent id ="84">The teacher will listen to it.</sent>
				<sent id ="85">He will rectify if there is any mistake.</sent>
				<sent id ="86">The students will again recite and make the teacher listen.</sent>
				<sent id ="87">Thus the students will learn to recite the Quran correctly.</sent>
				<sent id ="88">They will recite regularly.</sent>
				<sent id ="89">The Arab society was uncivilized.</sent>
				<sent id ="90">Looting and extensive bloodshed was their everyday's function.</sent>
				<sent id ="91">They used to forget Akhirat due to excessive attachment to wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="92">Cautioning all men forgetful of Akhirat, Allah Almighty says that He would revive men after their death and would expose their evil thoughts before them.</sent>
				<sent id ="93">He would adjudicate accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="94">Generally men are ungrateful to Allah Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="95">Men are naturally very greedy.</sent>
				<sent id ="96">Greed for more wealth makes man go astray.</sent>
				<sent id ="97">All men will be revived in Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="98">All of them will observe their activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="99">They will observe, their evil thoughts present before them.</sent>
				<sent id ="100">They will be judged accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="101">The Sura has been named after the first word of the Sura AI Qaria.</sent>
				<sent id ="102">Qaria means one who strikes hard.</sent>
				<sent id ="103">Here it means Qiyamat or the Day of Judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="104">The terrible scene and the adjudication thereafter in Qiyamat has been depicted in this Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="105">Considered from this point, the nomenclature of this Sura has deep harmony with the subject matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="106">We shall memorize the Sura and lern its meaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="107">In the first three verses of Sura Qariah (Qiyamat) has been repeated thrice in order to bring to notice the terrible occurrence of Qiyamat.</sent>
				<sent id ="108">Heavy mountains will be uprooted from their places and will move through the air like carded wool.</sent>
				<sent id ="109">Those, whose scale-pan of virtue will be light will be thrown in the depth of Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="110">The world is temporary.</sent>
				<sent id ="111">One day everything in this, world will be destroyed.</sent>
				<sent id ="112">That will be the Day of Judgement.</sent>
				<sent id ="113">After that, in the ground of resurrection good and bad deeds of people will be weighed.</sent>
				<sent id ="114">Those, whose good deeds will be more (heavier), will live a happy life.</sent>
				<sent id ="115">On the other hand those with more bad deeds will be burning for eternity in the fire of Jahannam.</sent>
				<sent id ="116">We shall abide by the commands of Allah, do-good deeds and refrain from bad deeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="117">We shall be blessed with Mercy in this world and in hereafter and be happy.</sent>
				<sent id ="118">The Sura has been named as Sura Takathur after the word Takathur meantioned in the first verse.</sent>
				<sent id ="119">Takathur means rivalry for affluence.</sent>
				<sent id ="120">Man becomes indifferent to the remembrance of Allah due to his infatuation with worldly wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="121">He does not care for Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="122">He faces death in that condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="123">There is a close harmony between the name of the Sura and its subject matter.</sent>
				<sent id ="124">Man forgets the Akhirat owing to his greed and fascination for more and more wealth, power and status.</sent>
				<sent id ="125">They embark upon mutual rivalry and competition for getting worldly affluence.</sent>
				<sent id ="126">They face death in that condition.</sent>
				<sent id ="127">Head they known and understood that Akhirat is many times better than this world, then they would not have such greed and lust.</sent>
				<sent id ="128">They will very soon come to know that this is very true.</sent>
				<sent id ="129">It is not an act of intelligent man to remain forgetful about the Akhirat being worried for wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="130">Those who earn wealth in improper ways, will be burnt in Jahannam in the Akhirat.</sent>
				<sent id ="131">Man will have to account for in the Akhirat for the graces received in this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="132">46 Islamic Studies We shall not forget the Akhirat by indulging ourselves in the greed for wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="133">We shall help and sympathize with the poor and needy.</sent>
				<sent id ="134">We shall spend ungdgingly in the path of Allah the graces granted by Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="135">In this Sura the contemptible role of Abu Lahab and his wife Umm Jamila in hostility.</sent>
				<sent id ="136">to the Prophet (Sm) and opposition to Islam is described.</sent>
				<sent id ="137">Abu Lahab, in spite of his being uncle of the Prophet (Sm) always was in the forefront in opposing him.</sent>
				<sent id ="138">His wife also helped her husband in his misdeeds by throwing thorns in the path of the Prophet (Sm) and by slandering him.</sent>
				<sent id ="139">But their enmity to Islam could not prevent Islam from advancement.</sent>
				<sent id ="140">That they will be punished severely as a consequence of their misdeeds is described in this Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="141">We learn from this Sura that hostility to the Prophet (Sm) and opposition to Islam is the most contemptible crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="142">Ikhlas means devotion, single-mindness.</sent>
				<sent id ="143">Single minded and pure Tawhid has been described in this Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="144">It is for this reason that this Sura is called lkhlas.</sent>
				<sent id ="145">The Mushriks (polytheists) of Makka wanted to know from the Prophet of Allah (Sm) the genealogy of Allah Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="146">They further wanted to know what Allah is made of, of gold, of silver or of some other thing?</sent>
				<sent id ="147">As an answer to these questions Allah Almighty revealed this Sura.</sent>
				<sent id ="148">We often commit sin due to ignorance or falling prey to the deception of Saitan.</sent>
				<sent id ="149">We should repent for it and seek forgivness from Allah Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="150">It is expected that He would forgive us if we supplicate to Him for forgiveness.</sent>
				<sent id ="151">Allah becomes pleased if supplication is made to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="152">Allah has taught us how to supplicate to Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="153">We, in this class, shall memorize three verses of supplication, learn their meaning and use them in supplication to Allah Almighty.</sent>
				<sent id ="154">At first Adam (As) and Bibi Hawa (As) lived in Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="155">Allah Almighty permitted them to eat all fruits and food there.</sent>
				<sent id ="156">But He forbade them to go near a certain tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="157">Instigated by Saitan, they ate the fruit of that forbidden tree.</sent>
				<sent id ="158">Allah then ousted them from Jannat and sent them to this world.</sent>
				<sent id ="159">They continuously wept for long period of time after they came to tne world.</sent>
				<sent id ="160">At last, Allah at His great mercy taught this Munajat-supplication.</sent>
				<sent id ="161">They humbly recited this Dual and sought forgiveness from Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="162">Allah Almighty accepted their supplication.</sent>
				<sent id ="163">We also shall admit our fault.</sent>
				<sent id ="164">We sltall humbly supplicate to Allah Almighty .</sent>
				<sent id ="165">Meaning: Our lord!</sent>
				<sent id ="166">Bestow on us Mercy from Yourself and dispose of our affair for us in the right way.</sent>
				<sent id ="167">A few centuries before the advent of the great Prophet (Sm), a tyrant King named Daqyanus used to oppress the Muslims.</sent>
				<sent id ="168">They were seven in number and they are called Ashabe-kahf or residents of cave.</sent>
				<sent id ="169">Allah Almighty granted their prayer.</sent>
				<sent id ="170">Throughout ages, young men devoted to truth were vocal against injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="171">We also shall not submit to injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="172">We shall stand against injustice.</sent>
				<sent id ="173">We shall supplicate to Allah in all our distresses.</sent>
				<sent id ="174">He will be kind to us.</sent>
				<sent id ="175">He will help us in performing all our activities properly.</sent>
				<sent id ="176">Meaning : Our Lord!</sent>
				<sent id ="177">We believe; then do forgive us and have mercy upon us for You are the best of those who show mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="178">Allah is Forgiving, Most Merciful.</sent>
				<sent id ="179">His kindness is boundless.</sent>
				<sent id ="180">The Prophet of Allah (Sm) said, Allah Almighty has divided kindness in one hundred parts and kept ninety-nine parts of it with Him.</sent>
				<sent id ="181">He has distributed only one part among all His creatures.</sent>
				<sent id ="182">It is clear from this that Allah's kindness and mercy is immense.</sent>
				<sent id ="183">Allah forgives His servants when -he commits a crime and then prays for pardon.</sent>
				<sent id ="184">Allah Almighty pardons him and bestows mercy on him.</sent>
				<sent id ="185">We shall have faith in Allah and pray to Him for forgiving our faults.</sent>
				<sent id ="186">We shall seek His mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="187">He will forgive us.</sent>
				<sent id ="188">We shall be bestowed with His mercy.</sent>
				<sent id ="189">Hadith means saying or message.</sent>
				<sent id ="190">In the terminology of Islam, the saying, deeds and consents of the Prophet (Sm) are called Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="191">The Position of Hadith is just after the Holy Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="192">It is an explanation of the Glorious Quran.</sent>
				<sent id ="193">In the Glorious Quran, many things are stated briefly.</sent>
				<sent id ="194">In Hadith it is narrated elaborately.</sent>
				<sent id ="195">We come across the model of his life in Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="196">For this reason the importance of Hadith in our life is limitless.</sent>
				<sent id ="197">Allah Almighty says- So take what the Apostle assigns to you and deny yourselves that which he withholds from you.</sent>
				<sent id ="198">Famous books on Hadith are six.</sent>
				<sent id ="199">These are collectively called Sihah Sitta.</sent>
				<sent id ="200">Sihah means faultless and Sitta means six.</sent>
				<sent id ="201">These are called Sihah Sitta because pure Hadithes are collected in them.</sent>
				<sent id ="202">Sahih Bukhari : Sahih Bukhari is the most famous among the books on Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="203">After the Glorious Quran, this book is the most famous and faultless.</sent>
				<sent id ="204">The name of its compiler is Abu Abdullah Muhammad Ibn Ismail Bukhari (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="205">He compiled it by selection from six lakhs of Hadith. it is divided into thirty paras or parts.</sent>
				<sent id ="206">Sahih Muslim : The name of its compiler is Abul Hussain Muslim Ibn Hajjaj (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="207">He compiled it by selection from three lakhs of Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="208">From the standpoint of purity its position is next to Sahih Bukhari.</sent>
				<sent id ="209">Sunnane-Nasaye : The name of its compiler is Ahmad Ibn Shuaib Nasaye (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="210">Its position is next to Bukhari and Muslim Sharif.</sent>
				<sent id ="211">Sunan-e-Abu Dawood : The name of its compiler is Abu Dawood Sulaiman Ibn Ashath (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="212">He compiled it by selection from five lakhs of Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="213">Its arrangement is of high standard.</sent>
				<sent id ="214">Jami Tirmizi : The name of its compiler is Abu Isa Muhammad Ibn Isa Tirmizi (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="215">Sunan-e-Ibn Majah : The name of its compiler is Abu Abdullah Muhammad lbn Yazid Ibn Majah (R).</sent>
				<sent id ="216">It has special status among the books on Hadith.</sent>
				<sent id ="217">The Great Prophet (Sm) has taught us how are we to beg of Allah and what are we to beg.</sent>
				<sent id ="218">We shall memorize the following three Hadithes taught by him, learn the meanings and use these in supplication (Munajat).</sent>
				<sent id ="219">Meaning : O Allah! Show me the straight path and correct me.</sent>
				<sent id ="220">(Muslim) The path shown by Allah is the right and straight path.</sent>
				<sent id ="221">We shall follow the path shown by Him and move accordingly.</sent>
				<sent id ="222">Meaning : O Allah!</sent>
				<sent id ="223">I pray for guidance from you, and ask for power to do righteous deed and to avoid misdeeds.</sent>
				<sent id ="224">I also pray for cleanliness so that I can guard myself Islamic Studies 51 against greed for other's wealth.</sent>
				<sent id ="225">I further pray for freedom from poverty and want.</sent>
				<sent id ="226">Meaning: O Allah! Forgive me, be kind to me, keep me safe, give me pure livelihood.</sent>
				<sent id ="227">The Great Prophet (Sm) has given us many advice for enhancing the standard of our character and morality.</sent>
				<sent id ="228">If we follow his advice we will be blessed with many benefits in this world and hereafter.</sent>
				<sent id ="229">We shall mem orize the following three Hadithes on ethics and learn their meaning.</sent>
				<sent id ="230">Meaning : He who does not keep trust has no Iman.</sent>
				<sent id ="231">(his Iman is incomplete) A believer cannot commit treachery or breach of trust.</sent>
				<sent id ="232">These are anti-Iman and antisocial activities.</sent>
				<sent id ="233">The property of educational institution belongs to the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="234">These are kept in the custody of teachers and students.</sent>
				<sent id ="235">The property of the country is in the custody of the people.</sent>
				<sent id ="236">Breach of this trust is a crime.</sent>
				<sent id ="237">We shall keep trust.</sent>
				<sent id ="238">Meaning : He who breaks the ties of kith and kin will not enter Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="239">We have blood relation with father-mother.</sent>
				<sent id ="240">It is our duty to behave well with them and if need be, to help them financially.</sent>
				<sent id ="241">They will be happy for this.</sent>
				<sent id ="242">We shall also earn reward from Allah.</sent>
				<sent id ="243">We shall keep the tie of blood relationship.</sent>
				<sent id ="244">Meaning: Salat is a pillar of Deen Islam.</sent>
				<sent id ="245">Just as a house cannot be conceived of without pillar, similarly Deen Islam cannot be conceived of without Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="246">Salat is the key to Jannat.</sent>
				<sent id ="247">Salat differentiates between a Mumin, and a Kafir.</sent>
				<sent id ="248">Nearness to Allah can be attained through Salat.</sent>
				<sent id ="249">We shall realize the improtance of Salat and perform Salat earnestly.</sent>
			</div>
		</body>
	</text>
</TEI>
